
3
One
But, you may say, we asked you to speak about women and fiction—what, has that got to do with a room of one's own? I will
try to explain. When you asked me to speak about women and
fiction I sat down on the banks of a river and began to wonder
what the words meant. They might mean simply a few remarks
about Fanny Burney; a few more about Jane Austen; a tribute
to the Brontës and a sketch of Haworth Parsonage under snow;
some witticisms if possible about Miss Mitford; a respectful allusion to George Eliot; a reference to Mrs Gaskell and one
would have done. But at second sight the words seemed not so
simple. The title women and fiction might mean, and you may
have meant it to mean, women and what they are like, or it
might mean women and the fiction that they write; or it might
mean women and the fiction that is written about them, or it
might mean that somehow all three are inextricably mixed together and you want me to consider them in that light. But
when I began to consider the subject in this last way, which
seemed the most interesting, I soon saw that it had one fatal
drawback. I should never be able to come to a conclusion. I
should never be able to fulfil what is, I understand, the first
duty of a lecturer to hand you after an hour's discourse a nugget of pure truth to wrap up between the pages of your notebooks and keep on the mantelpiece for ever. All I could do was
to offer you an opinion upon one minor point—a woman must
have money and a room of her own if she is to write fiction;
and that, as you will see, leaves the great problem of the true
nature of woman and the true nature of fiction unsolved. I have
shirked the duty of coming to a conclusion upon these two
questions—women and fiction remain, so far as I am concerned, unsolved problems. But in order to make some amends
I am going to do what I can to show you how I arrived at this
opinion about the room and the money. I am going to develop
in your presence as fully and freely as I can the train of
thought which led me to think this. Perhaps if I lay bare the
ideas, the prejudices, that lie behind this statement you will
find that they have some bearing upon women and some upon
fiction. At any rate, when a subject is highly controversial—and
any question about sex is that—one cannot hope to tell the
4
truth. One can only show how one came to hold whatever opinion one does hold. One can only give one's audience the chance
of drawing their own conclusions as they observe the limitations, the prejudices, the idiosyncrasies of the speaker. Fiction
here is likely to contain more truth than fact. Therefore I propose, making use of all the liberties and licences of a novelist,
to tell you the story of the two days that preceded my coming
here—how, bowed down by the weight of the subject which you
have laid upon my shoulders, I pondered it, and made it work
in and out of my daily life. I need not say that what I am about
to describe has no existence; Oxbridge is an invention; so is
Fernham; 'I' is only a convenient term for somebody who has
no real being. Lies will flow from my lips, but there may perhaps be some truth mixed up with them; it is for you to seek
out this truth and to decide whether any part of it is worth
keeping. If not, you will of course throw the whole of it into the
waste-paper basket and forget all about it.
Here then was I (call me Mary Beton, Mary Seton, Mary
Carmichael or by any name you please—it is not a matter of
any importance) sitting on the banks of a river a week or two
ago in fine October weather, lost in thought. That collar I have
spoken of, women and fiction, the need of coming to some conclusion on a subject that raises all sorts of prejudices and passions, bowed my head to the ground. To the right and left
bushes of some sort, golden and crimson, glowed with the colour, even it seemed burnt with the heat, of fire. On the further
bank the willows wept in perpetual lamentation, their hair
about their shoulders. The river reflected whatever it chose of
sky and bridge and burning tree, and when the undergraduate
had oared his boat through the reflections they closed again,
completely, as if he had never been. There one might have sat
the clock round lost in thought. Thought—to call it by a
prouder name than it deserved—had let its line down into the
stream. It swayed, minute after minute, hither and thither
among the reflections and the weeds, letting the water lift it
and sink it until—you know the little tug—the sudden conglomeration of an idea at the end of one's line: and then the cautious hauling of it in, and the careful laying of it out? Alas, laid
on the grass how small, how insignificant this thought of mine
looked; the sort of fish that a good fisherman puts back into
5
the water so that it may grow fatter and be one day worth
cooking and eating. I will not trouble you with that thought
now, though if you look carefully you may find it for yourselves
in the course of what I am going to say.
But however small it was, it had, nevertheless, the mysterious property of its kind—put back into the mind, it became at
once very exciting, and important; and as it darted and sank,
and flashed hither and thither, set up such a wash and tumult
of ideas that it was impossible to sit still. It was thus that I
found myself walking with extreme rapidity across a grass plot.
Instantly a man's figure rose to intercept me. Nor did I at first
understand that the gesticulations of a curious-looking object,
in a cut-away coat and evening shirt, were aimed at me. His
face expressed horror and indignation. Instinct rather than
reason came to my help, he was a Beadle; I was a woman. This
was the turf; there was the path. Only the Fellows and Scholars are allowed here; the gravel is the place for me. Such
thoughts were the work of a moment. As I regained the path
the arms of the Beadle sank, his face assumed its usual repose,
and though turf is better walking than gravel, no very great
harm was done. The only charge I could bring against the Fellows and Scholars of whatever the college might happen to be
was that in protection of their turf, which has been rolled for
300 years in succession they had sent my little fish into hiding.
What idea it had been that had sent me so audaciously trespassing I could not now remember. The spirit of peace descended like a cloud from heaven, for if the spirit of peace dwells
anywhere, it is in the courts and quadrangles of Oxbridge on a
fine October morning. Strolling through those colleges past
those ancient halls the roughness of the present seemed
smoothed away; the body seemed contained in a miraculous
glass cabinet through which no sound could penetrate, and the
mind, freed from any contact with facts (unless one trespassed
on the turf again), was at liberty to settle down upon whatever
meditation was in harmony with the moment. As chance would
have it, some stray memory of some old essay about revisiting
Oxbridge in the long vacation brought Charles Lamb to
mind—Saint Charles, said Thackeray, putting a letter of Lamb's
to his forehead. Indeed, among all the dead (I give you my
thoughts as they came to me), Lamb is one of the most
6
congenial; one to whom one would have liked to say, Tell me
then how you wrote your essays? For his essays are superior
even to Max Beerbohm's, I thought, with all their perfection,
because of that wild flash of imagination, that lightning crack
of genius in the middle of them which leaves them flawed and
imperfect, but starred with poetry. Lamb then came to
Oxbridge perhaps a hundred years ago. Certainly he wrote an
essay—the name escapes me—about the manuscript of one of
Milton's poems which he saw here. It was LYCIDAS perhaps,
and Lamb wrote how it shocked him to think it possible that
any word in LYCIDAS could have been different from what it is.
To think of Milton changing the words in that poem seemed to
him a sort of sacrilege. This led me to remember what I could
of LYCIDAS and to amuse myself with guessing which word it
could have been that Milton had altered, and why. It then occurred to me that the very manuscript itself which Lamb had
looked at was only a few hundred yards away, so that one
could follow Lamb's footsteps across the quadrangle to that
famous library where the treasure is kept. Moreover, I recollected, as I put this plan into execution, it is in this famous library that the manuscript of Thackeray's ESMOND is also preserved. The critics often say that ESMOND is Thackeray's most
perfect novel. But the affectation of the style, with its imitation
of the eighteenth century, hampers one, so far as I can remember; unless indeed the eighteenth-century style was natural to
Thackeray—a fact that one might prove by looking at the
manuscript and seeing whether the alterations were for the benefit of the style or of the sense. But then one would have to
decide what is style and what is meaning, a question
which—but here I was actually at the door which leads into the
library itself. I must have opened it, for instantly there issued,
like a guardian angel barring the way with a flutter of black
gown instead of white wings, a deprecating, silvery, kindly gentleman, who regretted in a low voice as he waved me back that
ladies are only admitted to the library if accompanied by a Fellow of the College or furnished with a letter of introduction.
That a famous library has been cursed by a woman is a matter of complete indifference to a famous library. Venerable and
calm, with all its treasures safe locked within its breast, it
sleeps complacently and will, so far as I am concerned, so
7
sleep for ever. Never will I wake those echoes, never will I ask
for that hospitality again, I vowed as I descended the steps in
anger. Still an hour remained before luncheon, and what was
one to do? Stroll on the meadows? sit by the river? Certainly it
was a lovely autumn morning; the leaves were fluttering red to
the ground; there was no great hardship in doing either. But
the sound of music reached my ear. Some service or celebration was going forward. The organ complained magnificently
as I passed the chapel door. Even the sorrow of Christianity
sounded in that serene air more like the recollection of sorrow
than sorrow itself; even the groanings of the ancient organ
seemed lapped in peace. I had no wish to enter had I the right,
and this time the verger might have stopped me, demanding
perhaps my baptismal certificate, or a letter of introduction
from the Dean. But the outside of these magnificent buildings
is often as beautiful as the inside. Moreover, it was amusing
enough to watch the congregation assembling, coming in and
going out again, busying themselves at the door of the chapel
like bees at the mouth of a hive. Many were in cap and gown;
some had tufts of fur on their shoulders; others were wheeled
in bath-chairs; others, though not past middle age, seemed
creased and crushed into shapes so singular that one was reminded of those giant crabs and crayfish who heave with difficulty across the sand of an aquarium. As I leant against the
wall the University indeed seemed a sanctuary in which are
preserved rare types which would soon be obsolete if left to
fight for existence on the pavement of the Strand. Old stories
of old deans and old dons came back to mind, but before I had
summoned up courage to whistle—it used to be said that at the
sound of a whistle old Professor —— instantly broke into a gallop—the venerable congregation had gone inside. The outside
of the chapel remained. As you know, its high domes and pinnacles can be seen, like a sailing-ship always voyaging never
arriving, lit up at night and visible for miles, far away across
the hills. Once, presumably, this quadrangle with its smooth
lawns, its massive buildings and the chapel itself was marsh
too, where the grasses waved and the swine rootled. Teams of
horses and oxen, I thought, must have hauled the stone in wagons from far countries, and then with infinite labour the grey
blocks in whose shade I was now standing were poised in order
8
one on top of another. and then the painters brought their
glass for the windows, and the masons were busy for centuries
up on that roof with putty and cement, spade and trowel. Every
Saturday somebody must have poured gold and silver out of a
leathern purse into their ancient fists, for they had their beer
and skittles presumably of an evening. An unending stream of
gold and silver, I thought, must have flowed into this court perpetually to keep the stones coming and the masons working; to
level, to ditch, to dig and to drain. But it was then the age of
faith, and money was poured liberally to set these stones on a
deep foundation, and when the stones were raised, still more
money was poured in from the coffers of kings and queens and
great nobles to ensure that hymns should be sung here and
scholars taught. Lands were granted; tithes were paid. And
when the age of faith was over and the age of reason had
come, still the same flow of gold and silver went on; fellowships were founded; lectureships endowed; only the gold and
silver flowed now, not from the coffers of the king. but from
the chests of merchants and manufacturers, from the purses of
men who had made, say, a fortune from industry, and returned,
in their wills, a bounteous share of it to endow more chairs,
more lectureships, more fellowships in the university where
they had learnt their craft. Hence the libraries and laboratories; the observatories; the splendid equipment of costly and
delicate instruments which now stands on glass shelves, where
centuries ago the grasses waved and the swine rootled. Certainly, as I strolled round the court, the foundation of gold and
silver seemed deep enough; the pavement laid solidly over the
wild grasses. Men with trays on their heads went busily from
staircase to staircase. Gaudy blossoms flowered in windowboxes. The strains of the gramophone blared out from the
rooms within. It was impossible not to reflect—the reflection
whatever it may have been was cut short. The clock struck. it
was time to find one's way to luncheon.
It is a curious fact that novelists have a way of making us believe that luncheon parties are invariably memorable for
something very witty that was said, or for something very wise
that was done. But they seldom spare a word for what was
eaten. It is part of the novelist's convention not to mention
soup and salmon and ducklings, as if soup and salmon and
9
ducklings were of no importance whatsoever, as if nobody ever
smoked a cigar or drank a glass of wine. Here, however, I shall
take the liberty to defy that convention and to tell you that the
lunch on this occasion began with soles, sunk in a deep dish,
over which the college cook had spread a counterpane of the
whitest cream, save that it was branded here and there with
brown spots like the spots on the flanks of a doe. After that
came the partridges, but if this suggests a couple of bald,
brown birds on a plate you are mistaken. The partridges, many
and various, came with all their retinue of sauces and salads,
the sharp and the sweet, each in its order; their potatoes, thin
as coins but not so hard; their sprouts, foliated as rosebuds but
more succulent. And no sooner had the roast and its retinue
been done with than the silent servingman, the Beadle himself
perhaps in a milder manifestation, set before us, wreathed in
napkins, a confection which rose all sugar from the waves. To
call it pudding and so relate it to rice and tapioca would be an
insult. Meanwhile the wineglasses had flushed yellow and
flushed crimson; had been emptied; had been filled. And thus
by degrees was lit, half-way down the spine, which is the seat
of the soul, not that hard little electric light which we call brilliance, as it pops in and out upon our lips, but the more profound, subtle and subterranean glow which is the rich yellow
flame of rational intercourse. No need to hurry. No need to
sparkle. No need to be anybody but oneself. We are all going to
heaven and Vandyck is of the company—in other words, how
good life seemed, how sweet its rewards, how trivial this
grudge or that grievance, how admirable friendship and the society of one's kind, as, lighting a good cigarette, one sunk
among the cushions in the window-seat.
If by good luck there had been an ash-tray handy, if one had
not knocked the ash out of the window in default, if things had
been a little different from what they were, one would not have
seen, presumably, a cat without a tail. The sight of that abrupt
and truncated animal padding softly across the quadrangle
changed by some fluke of the subconscious intelligence the
emotional light for me. It was as if someone had let fall a
shade. Perhaps the excellent hock was relinquishing its hold.
Certainly, as I watched the Manx cat pause in the middle of the
lawn as if it too questioned the universe, something seemed
10
lacking, something seemed different. But what was lacking,
what was different, I asked myself, listening to the talk? And to
answer that question I had to think myself out of the room,
back into the past, before the war indeed, and to set before my
eyes the model of another luncheon party held in rooms not
very far distant from these; but different. Everything was different. Meanwhile the talk went on among the guests, who
were many and young, some of this sex, some of that; it went
on swimmingly, it went on agreeably, freely, amusingly. And as
it went on I set it against the background of that other talk,
and as I matched the two together I had no doubt that one was
the descendant, the legitimate heir of the other. Nothing was
changed; nothing was different save only here I listened with
all my ears not entirely to what was being said, but to the murmur or current behind it. Yes, that was it—the change was
there. Before the war at a luncheon party like this people
would have said precisely the same things but they would have
sounded different, because in those days they were accompanied by a sort of humming noise, not articulate, but musical, exciting, which changed the value of the words themselves.
Could one set that humming noise to words? Perhaps with the
help of the poets one could.. A book lay beside me and, opening
it, I turned casually enough to Tennyson. And here I found
Tennyson was singing:
There has fallen a splendid tear
From the passion-flower at the gate.
She is coming, my dove, my dear;
She is coming, my life, my fate;
The red rose cries, 'She is near, she is near';
And the white rose weeps, 'She is late';
The larkspur listens, 'I hear, I hear';
And the lily whispers, 'I wait.'
Was that what men hummed at luncheon parties before the
war? And the women?
My heart is like a singing bird
Whose nest is in a water'd shoot;
My heart is like an apple tree
Whose boughs are bent with thick-set fruit,
11
My heart is like a rainbow shell
That paddles in a halcyon sea;
My heart is gladder than all these
Because my love is come to me.
Was that what women hummed at luncheon parties before
the war?
There was something so ludicrous in thinking of people humming such things even under their breath at luncheon parties
before the war that I burst out laughing. and had to explain my
laughter by pointing at the Manx cat, who did look a little absurd, poor beast, without a tail, in the middle of the lawn. Was
he really born so, or had he lost his tail in an accident? The
tailless cat, though some are said to exist in the Isle of Man, is
rarer than one thinks. It is a queer animal, quaint rather than
beautiful. It is strange what a difference a tail makes—you
know the sort of things one says as a lunch party breaks up
and people are finding their coats and hats.
This one, thanks to the hospitality of the host, had lasted far
into the afternoon. The beautiful October day was fading and
the leaves were falling from the trees in the avenue as I walked
through it. Gate after gate seemed to close with gentle finality
behind me. Innumerable beadles were fitting innumerable keys
into well-oiled locks; the treasure-house was being made secure for another night. After the avenue one comes out upon a
road—I forget its name—which leads you, if you take the right
turning, along to Fernham. But there was plenty of time. Dinner was not till half-past seven. One could almost do without
dinner after such a luncheon. It is strange how a scrap of poetry works in the mind and makes the legs move in time to it
along the road. Those words——
There has fallen a splendid tear
From the passion-flower at the gate.
She is coming, my dove, my dear——
sang in my blood as I stepped quickly along towards
Headingley. And then, switching off into the other measure, I
sang, where the waters are churned up by the weir:
12
My heart is like a singing bird
Whose nest is in a water'd shoot;
My heart is like an apple tree…
What poets, I cried aloud, as one does in the dusk, what poets they were!
In a sort of jealousy, I suppose, for our own age, silly and absurd though these comparisons are, I went on to wonder if honestly one could name two living poets now as great as
Tennyson and Christina Rossetti were then. Obviously it is impossible, I thought, looking into those foaming waters, to compare them. The very reason why that poetry excites one to such
abandonment, such rapture, is that it celebrates some feeling
that one used to have (at luncheon parties before the war perhaps), so that one responds easily, familiarly, without troubling
to check the feeling, or to compare it with any that one has
now. But the living poets express a feeling that is actually being made and torn out of us at the moment. One does not recognize it in the first place; often for some reason one fears it;
one watches it with keenness and compares it jealously and
suspiciously with the old feeling that one knew. Hence the difficulty of modern poetry; and it is because of this difficulty that
one cannot remember more than two consecutive lines of any
good modern poet. For this reason—that my memory failed
me—the argument flagged for want of material. But why, I continued, moving on towards Headingley, have we stopped humming under our breath at luncheon parties? Why has Alfred
ceased to sing
She is coming, my dove, my dear.
Why has Christina ceased to respond
My heart is gladder than all these
Because my love is come to me?
Shall we lay the blame on the war? When the guns fired in
August 1914, did the faces of men and women show so plain in
each other's eyes that romance was killed? Certainly it was a
shock (to women in particular with their illusions about education, and so on) to see the faces of our rulers in the light of the
13
shell-fire. So ugly they looked—German, English, French—so
stupid. But lay the blame where one will, on whom one will, the
illusion which inspired Tennyson and Christina Rossetti to sing
so passionately about the coming of their loves is far rarer now
than then. One has only to read, to look, to listen, to remember. But why say 'blame'? Why, if it was an illusion, not praise
the catastrophe, whatever it was, that destroyed illusion and
put truth in its place? For truth… those dots mark the spot
where, in search of truth, I missed the turning up to Fernham.
Yes indeed, which was truth and which was illusion? I asked
myself. What was the truth about these houses, for example,
dim and festive now with their red windows in the dusk, but
raw and red and squalid, with their sweets and their bootlaces,
at nine o'clock in the morning? And the willows and the river
and the gardens that run down to the river, vague now with the
mist stealing over them, but gold and red in the sunlight—which was the truth, which was the illusion about them?
I spare you the twists and turns of my cogitations, for no conclusion was found on the road to Headingley, and I ask You to
suppose that I soon found out my mistake about the turning
and retraced my steps to Fernham.
As I have said already that it was an October day, I dare not
forfeit your respect and imperil the fair name of fiction by
changing the season and describing lilacs hanging over garden
walls, crocuses, tulips and other flowers of spring. Fiction must
stick to facts, and the truer the facts the better the fiction—so
we are told. Therefore it was still autumn and the leaves were
still yellow and falling, if anything, a little faster than before,
because it was now evening (seven twenty-three to be precise)
and a breeze (from the south-west to be exact) had risen. But
for all that there was something odd at work:
My heart is like a singing bird
Whose nest is in a water'd shoot;
My heart is like an apple tree
Whose boughs are bent with thick-set fruit—
perhaps the words of Christina Rossetti were partly responsible for the folly of the fancy—it was nothing of course but a
fancy—that the lilac was shaking its flowers over the garden
14
walls, and the brimstone butterflies were scudding hither and
thither, and the dust of the pollen was in the air. A wind blew,
from what quarter I know not, but it lifted the half-grown
leaves so that there was a flash of silver grey in the air. It was
the time between the lights when colours undergo their intensification and purples and golds burn in window-panes like the
beat of an excitable heart; when for some reason the beauty of
the world revealed and yet soon to perish (here I pushed into
the garden, for, unwisely, the door was left open and no
beadles seemed about), the beauty of the world which is so
soon to perish, has two edges, one of laughter, one of anguish,
cutting the heart asunder. The gardens of Fernham lay before
me in the spring twilight, wild and open, and in the long grass,
sprinkled and carelessly flung, were daffodils and bluebells,
not orderly perhaps at the best of times, and now wind-blown
and waving as they tugged at their roots. The windows of the
building, curved like ships' windows among generous waves of
red brick, changed from lemon to silver under the flight of the
quick spring clouds. Somebody was in a hammock, somebody,
but in this light they were phantoms only, half guessed, half
seen, raced across the grass—would no one stop her?—and
then on the terrace, as if popping out to breathe the air, to
glance at the garden, came a bent figure, formidable yet
humble, with her great forehead and her shabby dress—could
it be the famous scholar, could it be J—— H—— herself? All
was dim, yet intense too, as if the scarf which the dusk had
flung over the garden were torn asunder by star or sword—the
gash of some terrible reality leaping, as its way is, out of the
heart of the spring. For youth——
Here was my soup. Dinner was being served in the great
dining-hall. Far from being spring it was in fact an evening in
October. Everybody was assembled in the big dining-room.
Dinner was ready. Here was the soup. It was a plain gravy
soup. There was nothing to stir the fancy in that. One could
have seen through the transparent liquid any pattern that
there might have been on the plate itself. But there was no pattern. The plate was plain. Next came beef with its attendant
greens and potatoes—a homely trinity, suggesting the rumps of
cattle in a muddy market, and sprouts curled and yellowed at
the edge, and bargaining and cheapening and women with
15
string bags on Monday morning. There was no reason to complain of human nature's daily food, seeing that the supply was
sufficient and coal-miners doubtless were sitting down to less.
Prunes and custard followed. And if anyone complains that
prunes, even when mitigated by custard, are an uncharitable
vegetable (fruit they are not), stringy as a miser's heart and exuding a fluid such as might run in misers' veins who have
denied themselves wine and warmth for eighty years and yet
not given to the poor, he should reflect that there are people
whose charity embraces even the prune. Biscuits and cheese
came next, and here the water-jug was liberally passed round,
for it is the nature of biscuits to be dry, and these were biscuits
to the core. That was all. The meal was over. Everybody
scraped their chairs back; the swing-doors swung violently to
and fro; soon the hall was emptied of every sign of food and
made ready no doubt for breakfast next morning. Down corridors and up staircases the youth of England went banging
and singing. And was it for a guest, a stranger (for I had no
more right here in Fernham than in Trinity or Somerville or
Girton or Newnham or Christchurch), to say, 'The dinner was
not good,' or to say (we were now, Mary Seton and I, in her
sitting-room), 'Could we not have dined up here alone?' for if I
had said anything of the kind I should have been prying and
searching into the secret economies of a house which to the
stranger wears so fine a front of gaiety and courage. No, one
could say nothing of the sort. Indeed, conversation for a moment flagged. The human frame being what it is, heart, body
and brain all mixed together, and not contained in separate
compartments as they will be no doubt in another million
years, a good dinner is of great importance to good talk. One
cannot think well, love well, sleep well, if one has not dined
well. The lamp in the spine does not light on beef and prunes.
We are all PROBABLY going to heaven, and Vandyck is, we
HOPE, to meet us round the next corner—that is the dubious
and qualifying state of mind that beef and prunes at the end of
the day's work breed between them. Happily my friend, who
taught science, had a cupboard where there was a squat bottle
and little glasses—(but there should have been sole and partridge to begin with)—so that we were able to draw up to the
fire and repair some of the damages of the day's living. In a
16
minute or so we were slipping freely in and out among all those
objects of curiosity and interest which form in the mind in the
absence of a particular person, and are naturally to be discussed on coming together again—how somebody has married,
another has not; one thinks this, another that; one has improved out of all knowledge, the other most amazingly gone to
the bad—with all those speculations upon human nature and
the character of the amazing world we live in which spring naturally from such beginnings. While these things were being
said, however, I became shamefacedly aware of a current setting in of its own accord and carrying everything forward to an
end of its own. One might be talking of Spain or Portugal, of
book or racehorse, but the real interest of whatever was said
was none of those things, but a scene of masons on a high roof
some five centuries ago. Kings and nobles brought treasure in
huge sacks and poured it under the earth. This scene was for
ever coming alive in my mind and placing itself by another of
lean cows and a muddy market and withered greens and the
stringy hearts of old men—these two pictures, disjointed and
disconnected and nonsensical as they were, were for ever coming together and combating each other and had me entirely at
their mercy. The best course, unless the whole talk was to be
distorted, was to expose what was in my mind to the air, when
with good luck it would fade and crumble like the head of the
dead king when they opened the coffin at Windsor. Briefly,
then, I told Miss Seton about the masons who had been all
those years on the roof of the chapel, and about the kings and
queens and nobles bearing sacks of gold and silver on their
shoulders, which they shovelled into the earth; and then how
the great financial magnates of our own time came and laid
cheques and bonds, I suppose, where the others had laid ingots
and rough lumps of gold. All that lies beneath the colleges
down there, I said; but this college, where we are now sitting,
what lies beneath its gallant red brick and the wild unkempt
grasses of the garden? What force is behind that plain china off
which we dined, and (here it popped out of my mouth before I
could stop it) the beef, the custard and the prunes?
Well, said Mary Seton, about the year 1860—Oh, but you
know the story, she said, bored, I suppose, by the recital. And
she told me—rooms were hired. Committees met. Envelopes
17
were addressed. Circulars were drawn up. Meetings were held;
letters were read out; so-and-so has promised so much; on the
contrary, Mr —— won't give a penny. The SATURDAY REVIEW
has been very rude. How can we raise a fund to pay for offices?
Shall we hold a bazaar? Can't we find a pretty girl to sit in the
front row? Let us look up what John Stuart Mill said on the
subject. Can anyone persuade the editor of the —— to print a
letter? Can we get Lady —— to sign it? Lady —— is out of
town. That was the way it was done, presumably, sixty years
ago, and it was a prodigious effort, and a great deal of time
was spent on it. And it was only after a long struggle and with
the utmost difficulty that they got thirty thousand pounds
together1
.
At the thought of all those women working year after year
and finding it hard to get two thousand pounds together, and
as much as they could do to get thirty thousand pounds, we
burst out in scorn at the reprehensible poverty of our sex.
What had our mothers been doing then that they had no wealth
to leave us? Powdering their noses? Looking in at shop windows? Flaunting in the sun at Monte Carlo? There were some
photographs on the mantelpiece. Mary's mother—if that was
her picture—may have been a wastrel in her spare time (she
had thirteen children by a minister of the church), but if so her
gay and dissipated life had left too few traces of its pleasures
on her face. She was a homely body; an old lady in a plaid
shawl which was fastened by a large cameo; and she sat in a
basket-chair, encouraging a spaniel to look at the camera, with
the amused, yet strained expression of one who is sure that the
dog will move directly the bulb is pressed. Now if she had gone
into business; had become a manufacturer of artificial silk or a
1.We are told that we ought to ask for £30,000 at least… It is not a large
sum, considering that there is to be but one college of this sort for Great
Britain, Ireland and the Colonies, and considering how easy it is to raise
immense sums for boys' schools. But considering how few people really
wish women to be educated, it is a good deal.'—LADY STEPHEN, EMILY
DAVIES AND GIRTON COLLEGE.] So obviously we cannot have wine and
partridges and servants carrying tin dishes on their heads, she said. We
cannot have sofas and separate rooms. 'The amenities,' she said, quoting
from some book or other, 'will have to wait.' [* Every penny which could
be scraped together was set aside for building, and the amenities had to
be postponed.—R. STRACHEY, THE CAUSE.
18
magnate on the Stock Exchange; if she had left two or three
hundred thousand pounds to Fernham, we could have been sitting at our ease to-night and the subject of our talk might have
been archaeology, botany, anthropology, physics, the nature of
the atom, mathematics, astronomy, relativity, geography. If
only Mrs Seton and her mother and her mother before her had
learnt the great art of making money and had left their money,
like their fathers and their grandfathers before them, to found
fellowships and lectureships and prizes and scholarships appropriated to the use of their own sex, we might have dined
very tolerably up here alone off a bird and a bottle of wine; we
might have looked forward without undue confidence to a
pleasant and honourable lifetime spent in the shelter of one of
the liberally endowed professions. We might have been exploring or writing; mooning about the venerable places of the
earth; sitting contemplative on the steps of the Parthenon, or
going at ten to an office and coming home comfortably at halfpast four to write a little poetry. Only, if Mrs Seton and her like
had gone into business at the age of fifteen, there would have
been—that was the snag in the argument—no Mary. What, I
asked, did Mary think of that? There between the curtains was
the October night, calm and lovely, with a star or two caught in
the yellowing trees. Was she ready to resign her share of it and
her memories (for they had been a happy family, though a
large one) of games and quarrels up in Scotland, which she is
never tired of praising for the fineness of its air and the quality
of its cakes, in order that Fernham might have been endowed
with fifty thousand pounds or so by a stroke of the pen? For, to
endow a college would necessitate the suppression of families
altogether. Making a fortune and bearing thirteen children—no
human being could stand it. Consider the facts, we said. First
there are nine months before the baby is born. Then the baby
is born. Then there are three or four months spent in feeding
the baby. After the baby is fed there are certainly five years
spent in playing with the baby. You cannot, it seems, let children run about the streets. People who have seen them running wild in Russia say that the sight is not a pleasant one.
People say, too, that human nature takes its shape in the years
between one and five. If Mrs Seton, I said, had been making
money, what sort of memories would you have had of games
19
and quarrels? What would you have known of Scotland, and its
fine air and cakes and all the rest of it? But it is useless to ask
these questions, because you would never have come into existence at all. Moreover, it is equally useless to ask what might
have happened if Mrs Seton and her mother and her mother
before her had amassed great wealth and laid it under the
foundations of college and library, because, in the first place,
to earn money was impossible for them, and in the second, had
it been possible, the law denied them the right to possess what
money they earned. It is only for the last forty-eight years that
Mrs Seton has had a penny of her own. For all the centuries
before that it would have been her husband's property—a
thought which, perhaps, may have had its share in keeping Mrs
Seton and her mothers off the Stock Exchange. Every penny I
earn, they may have said, will be taken from me and disposed
of according to my husband's wisdom—perhaps to found a
scholarship or to endow a fellowship in Balliol or Kings, so that
to earn money, even if I could earn money, is not a matter that
interests me very greatly. I had better leave it to my husband.
At any rate, whether or not the blame rested on the old lady
who was looking at the spaniel, there could be no doubt that
for some reason or other our mothers had mismanaged their
affairs very gravely. Not a penny could be spared for
'amenities'; for partridges and wine, beadles and turf, books
and cigars, libraries and leisure. To raise bare walls out of bare
earth was the utmost they could do.
So we talked standing at the window and looking, as so many
thousands look every night, down on the domes and towers of
the famous city beneath us. It was very beautiful, very mysterious in the autumn moonlight. The old stone looked very white
and venerable. One thought of all the books that were assembled down there; of the pictures of old prelates and worthies hanging in the panelled rooms; of the painted windows
that would be throwing strange globes and crescents on the
pavement; of the tablets and memorials and inscriptions; of the
fountains and the grass; of the quiet rooms looking across the
quiet quadrangles. And (pardon me the thought) I thought, too,
of the admirable smoke and drink and the deep armchairs and
the pleasant carpets: of the urbanity, the geniality, the dignity
which are the offspring of luxury and privacy and space.
20
Certainly our mothers had not provided us with any thing comparable to all this—our mothers who found it difficult to scrape
together thirty thousand pounds, our mothers who bore thirteen children to ministers of religion at St Andrews.
So I went back to my inn, and as I walked through the dark
streets I pondered this and that, as one does at the end of the
day's work. I pondered why it was that Mrs Seton had no
money to leave us; and what effect poverty has on the mind;
and what effect wealth has on the mind; and I thought of the
queer old gentlemen I had seen that morning with tufts of fur
upon their shoulders; and I remembered how if one whistled
one of them ran; and I thought of the organ booming in the
chapel and of the shut doors of the library; and I thought how
unpleasant it is to be locked out; and I thought how it is worse
perhaps to be locked in; and, thinking of the safety and
prosperity of the one sex and of the poverty and insecurity of
the other and of the effect of tradition and of the lack of tradition upon the mind of a writer, I thought at last that it was time
to roll up the crumpled skin of the day, with its arguments and
its impressions and its anger and its laughter, and cast it into
the hedge. A thousand stars were flashing across the blue
wastes of the sky. One seemed alone with an inscrutable society. All human beings were laid asleep—prone, horizontal,
dumb. Nobody seemed stirring in the streets of Oxbridge. Even
the door of the hotel sprang open at the touch of an invisible
hand—not a boots was sitting up to light me to bed, it was so
late.
21
Two
The scene, if I may ask you to follow me, was now changed.
The leaves were still falling, but in London now, not Oxbridge;
and I must ask you to imagine a room, like many thousands,
with a window looking across people's hats and vans and
motor-cars to other windows, and on the table inside the room
a blank sheet of paper on which was written in large letters
WOMEN AND FICTION, but no more. The inevitable sequel to
lunching and dining at Oxbridge seemed, unfortunately, to be a
visit to the British Museum. One must strain off what was personal and accidental in all these impressions and so reach the
pure fluid, the essential oil of truth. For that visit to Oxbridge
and the luncheon and the dinner had started a swarm of questions. Why did men drink wine and women water? Why was
one sex so prosperous and the other so poor? What effect has
poverty on fiction? What conditions are necessary for the creation of works of art?—a thousand questions at once suggested
themselves. But one needed answers, not questions; and an answer was only to be had by consulting the learned and the unprejudiced, who have removed themselves above the strife of
tongue and the confusion of body and issued the result of their
reasoning and research in books which are to be found in the
British Museum. If truth is not to be found on the shelves of
the British Museum, where, I asked myself, picking up a notebook and a pencil, is truth?
Thus provided, thus confident and enquiring, I set out in the
pursuit of truth. The day, though not actually wet, was dismal,
and the streets in the neighbourhood of the Museum were full
of open coal-holes, down which sacks were showering; fourwheeled cabs were drawing up and depositing on the pavement corded boxes containing, presumably, the entire wardrobe of some Swiss or Italian family seeking fortune or refuge
or some other desirable commodity which is to be found in the
boarding-houses of Bloomsbury in the winter. The usual
hoarse-voiced men paraded the streets with plants on barrows.
Some shouted; others sang. London was like a workshop. London was like a machine. We were all being shot backwards and
forwards on this plain foundation to make some pattern. The
British Museum was another department of the factory. The
22
swing-doors swung open; and there one stood under the vast
dome, as if one were a thought in the huge bald forehead
which is so splendidly encircled by a band of famous names.
One went to the counter; one took a slip of paper; one opened
a volume of the catalogue, and the five dots here indicate five
separate minutes of stupefaction, wonder and bewilderment.
Have you any notion of how many books are written about women in the course of one year? Have you any notion how many
are written by men? Are you aware that you are, perhaps, the
most discussed animal in the universe? Here had I come with a
notebook and a pencil proposing to spend a morning reading,
supposing that at the end of the morning I should have transferred the truth to my notebook. But I should need to be a herd
of elephants, I thought, and a wilderness of spiders, desperately referring to the animals that are reputed longest lived
and most multitudinously eyed, to cope with all this. I should
need claws of steel and beak of brass even to penetrate the
husk. How shall I ever find the grains of truth embedded in all
this mass of paper? I asked myself, and in despair began running my eye up and down the long list of titles. Even the names
of the books gave me food for thought. Sex and its nature
might well attract doctors and biologists; but what was surprising and difficult of explanation was the fact that sex—woman,
that is to say—also attracts agreeable essayists, light-fingered
novelists, young men who have taken the M.A. degree; men
who have taken no degree; men who have no apparent qualification save that they are not women. Some of these books were,
on the face of it, frivolous and facetious; but many, on the other hand, were serious and prophetic, moral and hortatory.
Merely to read the titles suggested innumerable schoolmasters, innumerable clergymen mounting their platforms and pulpits and holding forth with loquacity which far exceeded the
hour usually alloted to such discourse on this one subject. It
was a most strange phenomenon; and apparently—here I consulted the letter M—one confined to the male sex. Women do
not write books about men—a fact that I could not help welcoming with relief, for if I had first to read all that men have
written about women, then all that women have written about
men, the aloe that flowers once in a hundred years would
flower twice before I could set pen to paper. So, making a
23
perfectly arbitrary choice of a dozen volumes or so, I sent my
slips of paper to lie in the wire tray, and waited in my stall,
among the other seekers for the essential oil of truth.
What could be the reason, then, of this curious disparity, I
wondered, drawing cart-wheels on the slips of paper provided
by the British taxpayer for other purposes. Why are women,
judging from this catalogue, so much more interesting to men
than men are to women? A very curious fact it seemed, and my
mind wandered to picture the lives of men who spend their
time in writing books about women; whether they were old or
young, married or unmarried, red-nosed or hump-backed—anyhow, it was flattering, vaguely, to feel oneself the object of
such attention provided that it was not entirely bestowed by
the crippled and the infirm—so I pondered until all such frivolous thoughts were ended by an avalanche of books sliding
down on to the desk in front of me. Now the trouble began. The
student who has been trained in research at Oxbridge has no
doubt some method of shepherding his question past all distractions till it runs into his answer as a sheep runs into its
pen. The student by my side, for instance, who was copying assiduously from a scientific manual, was, I felt sure, extracting
pure nuggets of the essential ore every ten minutes or so. His
little grunts of satisfaction indicated so much. But if, unfortunately, one has had no training in a university, the question far
from being shepherded to its pen flies like a frightened flock
hither and thither, helter-skelter, pursued by a whole pack of
hounds. Professors, schoolmasters, sociologists, clergymen,
novelists, essayists, journalists, men who had no qualification
save that they were not women, chased my simple and single
question—Why are some women poor?—until it became fifty
questions; until the fifty questions leapt frantically into midstream and were carried away. Every page in my notebook was
scribbled over with notes. To show the state of mind I was in, I
will read you a few of them, explaining that the page was
headed quite simply, WOMEN AND POVERTY, in block letters;
but what followed was something like this:
Condition in Middle Ages of,
Habits in the Fiji Islands of,
Worshipped as goddesses by,
24
Weaker in moral sense than,
Idealism of,
Greater conscientiousness of,
South Sea Islanders, age of puberty among,
Attractiveness of,
Offered as sacrifice to,
Small size of brain of,
Profounder sub-consciousness of,
Less hair on the body of,
Mental, moral and physical inferiority of,
Love of children of,
Greater length of life of,
Weaker muscles of,
Strength of affections of,
Vanity of,
Higher education of,
Shakespeare's opinion of,
Lord Birkenhead's opinion of,
Dean Inge's opinion of,
La Bruyere's opinion of,
Dr Johnson's opinion of,
Mr Oscar Browning's opinion of,…
Here I drew breath and added, indeed, in the margin, Why
does Samuel Butler say, 'Wise men never say what they think
of women'? Wise men never say anything else apparently. But,
I continued, leaning back in my chair and looking at the vast
dome in which I was a single but by now somewhat harassed
thought, what is so unfortunate is that wise men never think
the same thing about women. Here is Pope:
Most women have no character at all.
And here is La Bruyère:
Les femmes sont extrêmes, elles sont meilleures ou pires
que les hommes——
a direct contradiction by keen observers who were contemporary. Are they capable of education or incapable? Napoleon
thought them incapable. Dr Johnson thought the opposite2
.
25
Have they souls or have they not souls? Some savages say they
have none. Others, on the contrary, maintain that women are
half divine and worship them on that account3
. Some sages
hold that they are shallower in the brain; others that they are
deeper in the consciousness. Goethe honoured them; Mussolini
despises them. Wherever one looked men thought about women and thought differently. It was impossible to make head or
tail of it all, I decided, glancing with envy at the reader next
door who was making the neatest abstracts, headed often with
an A or a B or a C, while my own notebook rioted with the wildest scribble of contradictory jottings. It was distressing, it was
bewildering, it was humiliating. Truth had run through my fingers. Every drop had escaped.
I could not possibly go home, I reflected, and add as a serious contribution to the study of women and fiction that women
have less hair on their bodies than men, or that the age of puberty among the South Sea Islanders is nine—or is it
ninety?—even the handwriting had become in its distraction indecipherable. It was disgraceful to have nothing more weighty
or respectable to show after a whole morning's work. And if I
could not grasp the truth about W. (as for brevity's sake I had
come to call her) in the past, why bother about W. in the future? It seemed pure waste of time to consult all those gentlemen who specialize in woman and her effect on whatever it
may be—politics, children, wages, morality—numerous and
learned as they are. One might as well leave their books
unopened.
But while I pondered I had unconsciously, in my listlessness,
in my desperation, been drawing a picture where I should, like
my neighbour, have been writing a conclusion. I had been
drawing a face, a figure. It was the face and the figure of Professor von X engaged in writing his monumental work entitled
2.'"Men know that women are an overmatch for them, and therefore they
choose the weakest or the most ignorant. If they did not think so, they
never could be afraid of women knowing as much as themselves."… In
justice to the sex, I think it but candid to acknowledge that, in a subsequent conversation, he told me that he was serious in what he
said.'—BOSWELL, THE JOURNAL OF A TOUR TO THE HEBRIDES.
3.The ancient Germans believed that there was something holy in women, and accordingly consulted them as oracles.'—FRAZER, GOLDEN
BOUGH.
26
THE MENTAL, MORAL, AND PHYSICAL INFERIORITY OF
THE FEMALE SEX. He was not in my picture a man attractive
to women. He was heavily built; he had a great jowl; to balance
that he had very small eyes; he was very red in the face. His
expression suggested that he was labouring under some emotion that made him jab his pen on the paper as if he were
killing some noxious insect as he wrote, but even when he had
killed it that did not satisfy him; he must go on killing it; and
even so, some cause for anger and irritation remained. Could it
be his wife, I asked, looking at my picture? Was she in love
with a cavalry officer? Was the cavalry officer slim and elegant
and dressed in astrakhan? Had he been laughed at, to adopt
the Freudian theory, in his cradle by a pretty girl? For even in
his cradle the professor, I thought, could not have been an attractive child. Whatever the reason, the professor was made to
look very angry and very ugly in my sketch, as he wrote his
great book upon the mental, moral and physical inferiority of
women. Drawing pictures was an idle way of finishing an unprofitable morning's work. Yet it is in our idleness, in our
dreams, that the submerged truth sometimes comes to the top.
A very elementary exercise in psychology, not to be dignified
by the name of psychoanalysis, showed me, on looking at my
notebook, that the sketch of the angry professor had been
made in anger. Anger had snatched my pencil while I dreamt.
But what was anger doing there? Interest, confusion, amusement, boredom—all these emotions I could trace and name as
they succeeded each other throughout the morning. Had anger, the black snake, been lurking among them? Yes, said the
sketch, anger had. It referred me unmistakably to the one
book, to the one phrase, which had roused the demon; it was
the professor's statement about the mental, moral and physical
inferiority of women. My heart had leapt. My cheeks had burnt.
I had flushed with anger. There was nothing specially remarkable, however foolish, in that. One does not like to be told that
one is naturally the inferior of a little man—I looked at the student next me—who breathes hard, wears a ready-made tie, and
has not shaved this fortnight. One has certain foolish vanities.
It is only human nature, I reflected, and began drawing
cartwheels and circles over the angry professor's face till he
looked like a burning bush or a flaming comet—anyhow, an
27
apparition without human semblance or significance. The professor was nothing now but a faggot burning on the top of
Hampstead Heath. Soon my own anger was explained and
done with; but curiosity remained. How explain the anger of
the professors? Why were they angry? For when it came to
analysing the impression left by these books there was always
an element of heat. This heat took many forms; it showed itself
in satire, in sentiment, in curiosity, in reprobation. But there
was another element which was often present and could not
immediately be identified. Anger, I called it. But it was anger
that had gone underground and mixed itself with all kinds of
other emotions. To judge from its odd effects, it was anger disguised and complex, not anger simple and open.
Whatever the reason, all these books, I thought, surveying
the pile on the desk, are worthless for my purposes. They were
worthless scientifically, that is to say, though humanly they
were full of instruction, interest, boredom, and very queer
facts about the habits of the Fiji Islanders. They had been written in the red light of emotion and not in the white light of
truth. Therefore they must be returned to the central desk and
restored each to his own cell in the enormous honeycomb. All
that I had retrieved from that morning's work had been the one
fact of anger. The professors—I lumped them together
thus—were angry. But why, I asked myself, having returned
the books, why, I repeated, standing under the colonnade
among the pigeons and the prehistoric canoes, why are they
angry? And, asking myself this question, I strolled off to find a
place for luncheon. What is the real nature of what I call for
the moment their anger? I asked. Here was a puzzle that would
last all the time that it takes to be served with food in a small
restaurant somewhere near the British Museum. Some previous luncher had left the lunch edition of the evening paper on a
chair, and, waiting to be served, I began idly reading the headlines. A ribbon of very large letters ran across the page. Somebody had made a big score in South Africa. Lesser ribbons announced that Sir Austen Chamberlain was at Geneva. A meat
axe with human hair on it had been found in a cellar. Mr
justice —— commented in the Divorce Courts upon the Shamelessness of Women. Sprinkled about the paper were other
pieces of news. A film actress had been lowered from a peak in
28
California and hung suspended in mid-air. The weather was going to be foggy. The most transient visitor to this planet, I
thought, who picked up this paper could not fail to be aware,
even from this scattered testimony, that England is under the
rule of a patriarchy. Nobody in their senses could fail to detect
the dominance of the professor. His was the power and the
money and the influence. He was the proprietor of the paper
and its editor and sub-editor. He was the Foreign Secretary
and the judge. He was the cricketer; he owned the racehorses
and the yachts. He was the director of the company that pays
two hundred per cent to its shareholders. He left millions to
charities and colleges that were ruled by himself. He suspended the film actress in mid-air. He will decide if the hair on the
meat axe is human; he it is who will acquit or convict the murderer, and hang him, or let him go free. With the exception of
the fog he seemed to control everything. Yet he was angry. I
knew that he was angry by this token. When I read what he
wrote about women—I thought, not of what he was saying, but
of himself. When an arguer argues dispassionately he thinks
only of the argument; and the reader cannot help thinking of
the argument too. If he had written dispassionately about women, had used indisputable proofs to establish his argument
and had shown no trace of wishing that the result should be
one thing rather than another, one would not have been angry
either. One would have accepted the fact, as one accepts the
fact that a pea is green or a canary yellow. So be it, I should
have said. But I had been angry because he was angry. Yet it
seemed absurd, I thought, turning over the evening paper, that
a man with all this power should be angry. Or is anger, I
wondered, somehow, the familiar, the attendant sprite on
power? Rich people, for example, are often angry because they
suspect that the poor want to seize their wealth. The professors, or patriarchs, as it might be more accurate to call them,
might be angry for that reason partly, but partly for one that
lies a little less obviously on the surface. Possibly they were not
'angry' at all; often, indeed, they were admiring, devoted, exemplary in the relations of private life. Possibly when the professor insisted a little too emphatically upon the inferiority of
women, he was concerned not with their inferiority, but with
his own superiority. That was what he was protecting rather
29
hot-headedly and with too much emphasis, because it was a
jewel to him of the rarest price. Life for both sexes—and I
looked at them, shouldering their way along the pavement—is
arduous, difficult, a perpetual struggle. It calls for gigantic
courage and strength. More than anything, perhaps, creatures
of illusion as we are, it calls for confidence in oneself. Without
self-confidence we are as babes in the cradle. And how can we
generate this imponderable quality, which is yet so invaluable,
most quickly? By thinking that other people are inferior to one
self. By feeling that one has some innate superiority—it may be
wealth, or rank, a straight nose, or the portrait of a grandfather by Romney—for there is no end to the pathetic devices of
the human imagination—over other people. Hence the enormous importance to a patriarch who has to conquer, who has to
rule, of feeling that great numbers of people, half the human
race indeed, are by nature inferior to himself. It must indeed
be one of the chief sources of his power. But let me turn the
light of this observation on to real life, I thought. Does it help
to explain some of those psychological puzzles that one notes
in the margin of daily life? Does it explain my astonishment of
the other day when Z, most humane, most modest of men, taking up some book by Rebecca West and reading a passage in it,
exclaimed, 'The arrant feminist! She says that men are snobs!'
The exclamation, to me so surprising—for why was Miss West
an arrant feminist for making a possibly true if uncomplimentary statement about the other sex?—was not merely the cry of
wounded vanity; it was a protest against some infringement of
his power to believe in himself. Women have served all these
centuries as looking-glasses possessing the magic and delicious power of reflecting the figure of man at twice its natural
size. Without that power probably the earth would still be
swamp and jungle. The glories of all our wars would he unknown. We should still be scratching the outlines of deer on
the remains of mutton bones and bartering flints for sheep
skins or whatever simple ornament took our unsophisticated
taste. Supermen and Fingers of Destiny would never have existed. The Czar and the Kaiser would never have worn crowns or
lost them. Whatever may be their use in civilized societies, mirrors are essential to all violent and heroic action. That is why
Napoleon and Mussolini both insist so emphatically upon the
30
inferiority of women, for if they were not inferior, they would
cease to enlarge. That serves to explain in part the necessity
that women so often are to men. And it serves to explain how
restless they are under her criticism; how impossible it is for
her to say to them this book is bad, this picture is feeble, or
whatever it may be, without giving far more pain and rousing
far more anger than a man would do who gave the same criticism. For if she begins to tell the truth, the figure in the
looking-glass shrinks; his fitness for life is diminished. How is
he to go on giving judgement, civilizing natives, making laws,
writing books, dressing up and speechifying at banquets, unless he can see himself at breakfast and at dinner at least twice
the size he really is? So I reflected, crumbling my bread and
stirring my coffee and now and again looking at the people in
the street. The looking-glass vision is of supreme importance
because it charges the vitality; it stimulates the nervous system. Take it away and man may die, like the drug fiend deprived of his cocaine. Under the spell of that illusion, I thought,
looking out of the window, half the people on the pavement are
striding to work. They put on their hats and coats in the morning under its agreeable rays. They start the day confident,
braced, believing themselves desired at Miss Smith's tea party;
they say to themselves as they go into the room, I am the superior of half the people here, and it is thus that they speak
with that self-confidence, that self-assurance, which have had
such profound consequences in public life and lead to such
curious notes in the margin of the private mind.
But these contributions to the dangerous and fascinating
subject of the psychology of the other sex—it is one, I hope,
that you will investigate when you have five hundred a year of
your own—were interrupted by the necessity of paying the bill.
It came to five shillings and ninepence. I gave the waiter a tenshilling note and he went to bring me change. There was
another ten-shilling note in my purse; I noticed it, because it is
a fact that still takes my breath away the power of my purse to
breed ten-shilling notes automatically. I open it and there they
are. Society gives me chicken and coffee, bed and lodging, in
return for a certain number of pieces of paper which were left
me by an aunt, for no other reason than that I share her name.
31
My aunt, Mary Beton, I must tell you, died by a fall from her
horse when she was riding out to take the air in Bombay. The
news of my legacy reached me one night about the same time
that the act was passed that gave votes to women. A solicitor's
letter fell into the post-box and when I opened it I found that
she had left me five hundred pounds a year for ever. Of the
two—the vote and the money—the money, I own, seemed infinitely the more important. Before that I had made my living by
cadging odd jobs from newspapers, by reporting a donkey
show here or a wedding there; I had earned a few pounds by
addressing envelopes, reading to old ladies, making artificial
flowers, teaching the alphabet to small children in a kindergarten. Such were the chief occupations that were open to women before 1918. I need not, I am afraid, describe in any detail
the hardness of the work, for you know perhaps women who
have done it; nor the difficulty of living on the money when it
was earned, for you may have tried. But what still remains with
me as a worse infliction than either was the poison of fear and
bitterness which those days bred in me. To begin with, always
to be doing work that one did not wish to do, and to do it like a
slave, flattering and fawning, not always necessarily perhaps,
but it seemed necessary and the stakes were too great to run
risks; and then the thought of that one gift which it was death
to hide—a small one but dear to the possessor—perishing and
with it my self, my soul,—all this became like a rust eating
away the bloom of the spring, destroying the tree at its heart.
However, as I say, my aunt died; and whenever I change a tenshilling note a little of that rust and corrosion is rubbed off,
fear and bitterness go. Indeed, I thought, slipping the silver into my purse, it is remarkable, remembering the bitterness of
those days, what a change of temper a fixed income will bring
about. No force in the world can take from me my five hundred
pounds. Food, house and clothing are mine forever. Therefore
not merely do effort and labour cease, but also hatred and bitterness. I need not hate any man; he cannot hurt me. I need
not flatter any man; he has nothing to give me. So imperceptibly I found myself adopting a new attitude towards the other
half of the human race. It was absurd to blame any class or any
sex, as a whole. Great bodies of people are never responsible
for what they do. They are driven by instincts which are not
32
within their control. They too, the patriarchs, the professors,
had endless difficulties, terrible drawbacks to contend with.
Their education had been in some ways as faulty as my own. It
had bred in them defects as great. True, they had money and
power, but only at the cost of harbouring in their breasts an
eagle, a vulture, forever tearing the liver out and plucking at
the lungs—the instinct for possession, the rage for acquisition
which drives them to desire other people's fields and goods
perpetually; to make frontiers and flags; battleships and poison
gas; to offer up their own lives and their children's lives. Walk
through the Admiralty Arch (I had reached that monument), or
any other avenue given up to trophies and cannon, and reflect
upon the kind of glory celebrated there. Or watch in the spring
sunshine the stockbroker and the great barrister going indoors
to make money and more money and more money when it is a
fact that five hundred pounds a year will keep one alive in the
sunshine. These are unpleasant instincts to harbour, I reflected. They are bred of the conditions of life; of the lack of civilization, I thought, looking at the statue of the Duke of Cambridge, and in particular at the feathers in his cocked hat, with
a fixity that they have scarcely ever received before. And, as I
realized these drawbacks, by degrees fear and bitterness modified themselves into pity and toleration; and then in a year or
two, pity and toleration went, and the greatest release of all
came, which is freedom to think of things in themselves. That
building, for example, do I like it or not? Is that picture beautiful or not? Is that in my opinion a good book or a bad? Indeed
my aunt's legacy unveiled the sky to me, and substituted for
the large and imposing figure of a gentleman, which Milton recommended for my perpetual adoration, a view of the open
sky.
So thinking, so speculating I found my way back to my house
by the river. Lamps were being lit and an indescribable change
had come over London since the morning hour. It was as if the
great machine after labouring all day had made with our help a
few yards of something very exciting and beautiful—a fiery fabric flashing with red eyes, a tawny monster roaring with hot
breath. Even the wind seemed flung like a flag as it lashed the
houses and rattled the hoardings.
33
In my little street, however, domesticity prevailed. The house
painter was descending his ladder; the nursemaid was wheeling the perambulator carefully in and out back to nursery tea;
the coal-heaver was folding his empty sacks on top of each other; the woman who keeps the green grocer's shop was adding
up the day's takings with her hands in red mittens. But so engrossed was I with the problem you have laid upon my
shoulders that I could not see even these usual sights without
referring them to one centre. I thought how much harder it is
now than it must have been even a century ago to say which of
these em ployments is the higher, the more necessary. Is it better to be a coal-heaver or a nursemaid; is the charwoman who
has brought up eight children of less value to the world than,
the barrister who has made a hundred thousand pounds? it is
useless to ask such questions; for nobody can answer them.
Not only do the comparative values of charwomen and lawyers
rise and fall from decade to decade, but we have no rods with
which to measure them even as they are at the moment. I had
been foolish to ask my professor to furnish me with 'indisputable proofs' of this or that in his argument about women. Even
if one could state the value of any one gift at the moment,
those values will change; in a century's time very possibly they
will have changed completely. Moreover, in a hundred years, I
thought, reaching my own doorstep, women will have ceased to
be the protected sex. Logically they will take part in all the
activities and exertions that were once denied them. The
nursemaid will heave coal. The shopwoman will drive an engine. All assumptions founded on the facts observed when women were the protected sex will have disappeared—as, for example (here a squad of soldiers marched down the street), that
women and clergymen and gardeners live longer than other
people. Remove that protection, expose them to the same exertions and activities, make them soldiers and sailors and enginedrivers and dock labourers, and will not women die off so much
younger, so much quicker, than men that one will say, 'I saw a
woman to-day', as one used to say, 'I saw an aeroplane'.
Anything may happen when womanhood has ceased to be a
protected occupation, I thought, opening the door. But what
bearing has all this upon the subject of my paper, Women and
Fiction? I asked, going indoors.
34
Three
It was disappointing not to have brought back in the evening
some important statement, some authentic fact. Women are
poorer than men because—this or that. Perhaps now it would
be better to give up seeking for the truth, and receiving on
one's head an avalanche of opinion hot as lava, discoloured as
dish-water. It would be better to draw the curtains; to shut out
distractions; to light the lamp; to narrow the enquiry and to
ask the historian, who records not opinions but facts, to describe under what conditions women lived, not throughout the
ages, but in England, say, in the time of Elizabeth.
For it is a perennial puzzle why no woman wrote a word of
that extraordinary literature when every other man, it seemed,
was capable of song or sonnet. What were the conditions in
which women lived? I asked myself; for fiction, imaginative
work that is, is not dropped like a pebble upon the ground, as
science may be; fiction is like a spider's web, attached ever so
lightly perhaps, but still attached to life at all four corners.
Often the attachment is scarcely perceptible; Shakespeare's
plays, for instance, seem to hang there complete by themselves. But when the web is pulled askew, hooked up at the
edge, torn in the middle, one remembers that these webs are
not spun in mid-air by incorporeal creatures, but are the work
of suffering human beings, and are attached to grossly material things, like health and money and the houses we live in.
I went, therefore, to the shelf where the histories stand and
took down one of the latest, Professor Trevelyan's HISTORY
OF ENGLAND. Once more I looked up Women, found 'position
of' and turned to the pages indicated. 'Wife-beating', I read,
'was a recognized right of man, and was practised without
shame by high as well as low… Similarly,' the historian goes
on, 'the daughter who refused to marry the gentleman of her
parents' choice was liable to be locked up, beaten and flung
about the room, without any shock being inflicted on public
opinion. Marriage was not an affair of personal affection, but of
family avarice, particularly in the "chivalrous" upper classes…
Betrothal often took place while one or both of the parties was
in the cradle, and marriage when they were scarcely out of the
nurses' charge.' That was about 1470, soon after Chaucer's
35
time. The next reference to the position of women is some two
hundred years later, in the time of the Stuarts. 'It was still the
exception for women of the upper and middle class to choose
their own husbands, and when the husband had been assigned,
he was lord and master, so far at least as law and custom could
make him. Yet even so,' Professor Trevelyan concludes,
'neither Shakespeare's women nor those of authentic
seventeenth-century memoirs, like the Verneys and the
Hutchinsons, seem wanting in personality and character.' Certainly, if we consider it, Cleopatra must have had a way with
her; Lady Macbeth, one would suppose, had a will of her own;
Rosalind, one might conclude, was an attractive girl. Professor
Trevelyan is speaking no more than the truth when he remarks
that Shakespeare's women do not seem wanting in personality
and character. Not being a historian, one might go even further and say that women have burnt like beacons in all the
works of all the poets from the beginning of time—Clytemnestra, Antigone, Cleopatra, Lady Macbeth, Phedre, Cressida, Rosalind, Desdemona, the Duchess of Malfi, among the dramatists;
then among the prose writers: Millamant, Clarissa, Becky
Sharp, Anna Karenina, Emma Bovary, Madame de Guermantes—the names flock to mind, nor do they recall women
'lacking in personality and character.' Indeed, if woman had no
existence save in the fiction written by men, one would imagine her a person of the utmost importance; very various; heroic and mean; splendid and sordid; infinitely beautiful and
hideous in the extreme; as great as a man, some think even
greater4
. But this is woman in fiction. In fact, as Professor
Trevelyan points out, she was locked up, beaten and flung
about the room.
A very queer, composite being thus emerges. Imaginatively
she is of the highest importance; practically she is completely
insignificant. She pervades poetry from cover to cover; she is
all but absent from history. She dominates the lives of kings
and conquerors in fiction; in fact she was the slave of any boy
whose parents forced a ring upon her finger. Some of the most
inspired words, some of the most profound thoughts in literature fall from her lips; in real life she could hardly read, could
scarcely spell, and was the property of her husband.
36
It was certainly an odd monster that one made up by reading
the historians first and the poets afterwards—a worm winged
like an eagle; the spirit of life and beauty in a kitchen chopping
up suet. But these monsters, however amusing to the imagination, have no existence in fact. What one must do to bring her
to life was to think poetically and prosaically at one and the
same moment, thus keeping in touch with fact—that she is Mrs
Martin, aged thirty-six, dressed in blue, wearing a black hat
and brown shoes; but not losing sight of fiction either—that she
is a vessel in which all sorts of spirits and forces are coursing
and flashing perpetually. The moment, however, that one tries
this method with the Elizabethan woman, one branch of illumination fails; one is held up by the scarcity of facts. One
knows nothing detailed, nothing perfectly true and substantial
about her. History scarcely mentions her. And I turned to Professor Trevelyan again to see what history meant to him. I
found by looking at his chapter headings that it meant——
'The Manor Court and the Methods of Open-field Agriculture… The Cistercians and Sheep-farming… The Crusades…
The University … The House of Commons… The Hundred
Years' War… The Wars of the Roses… The Renaissance Scholars… The Dissolution of the Monasteries… Agrarian and Religious Strife… The Origin of English Sea-power… The Armada…
' and so on. Occasionally an individual woman is mentioned, an
Elizabeth, or a Mary; a queen or a great lady. But by no
4.'It remains a strange and almost inexplicable fact that in Athena's city,
where women were kept in almost Oriental suppression as odalisques or
drudges, the stage should yet have produced figures like Clytemnestra
and Cassandra Atossa and Antigone, Phedre and Medea, and all the other
heroines who dominate play after play of the "misogynist" Euripides. But
the paradox of this world where in real life a respectable woman could
hardly show her face alone in the street, and yet on the stage woman
equals or surpasses man, has never been satisfactorily explained. In modern tragedy the same predominance exists. At all events, a very cursory
survey of Shakespeare's work (similarly with Webster, though not with
Marlowe or Jonson) suffices to reveal how this dominance, this initiative
of women, persists from Rosalind to Lady Macbeth. So too in Racine; six
of his tragedies bear their heroines' names; and what male characters of
his shall we set against Hermione and Andromaque, Berenice and Roxane, Phedre and Athalie? So again with Ibsen; what men shall we match
with Solveig and Nora, Heda and Hilda Wangel and Rebecca West?'—F.
L. LUCAS, TRAGEDY, pp. 114-15.
37
possible means could middle-class women with nothing but
brains and character at their command have taken part in any
one of the great movements which, brought together, constitute the historian's view of the past. Nor shall we find her in
collection of anecdotes. Aubrey hardly mentions her. She never
writes her own life and scarcely keeps a diary; there are only a
handful of her letters in existence. She left no plays or poems
by which we can judge her. What one wants, I thought—and
why does not some brilliant student at Newnham or Girton supply it?—is a mass of information; at what age did she marry;
how many children had she as a rule; what was her house like,
had she a room to herself; did she do the cooking; would she
be likely to have a servant? All these facts lie somewhere, presumably, in parish registers and account books; the life of the
average Elizabethan woman must be scattered about somewhere, could one collect it and make a book of it. It would be
ambitious beyond my daring, I thought, looking about the
shelves for books that were not there, to suggest to the students of those famous colleges that they should rewrite history,
though I own that it often seems a little queer as it is, unreal,
lop-sided; but why should they not add a supplement to history,
calling it, of course, by some inconspicuous name so that women might figure there without impropriety? For one often
catches a glimpse of them in the lives of the great, whisking
away into the back ground, concealing, I sometimes think, a
wink, a laugh, perhaps a tear. And, after all, we have lives
enough of Jane Austen; it scarcely seems necessary to consider
again the influence of the tragedies of Joanna Baillie upon the
poetry of Edgar Allan Poe; as for myself, I should not mind if
the homes and haunts of Mary Russell Mitford were closed to
the public for a century at least. But what I find deplorable, I
continued, looking about the bookshelves again, is that nothing
is known about women before the eighteenth century. I have
no model in my mind to turn about this way and that. Here am
I asking why women did not write poetry in the Elizabethan
age, and I am not sure how they were educated; whether they
were taught to write; whether they had sitting-rooms to themselves; how many women had children before they were
twenty-one; what, in short, they did from eight in the morning
till eight at night. They had no money evidently; according to
38
Professor Trevelyan they were married whether they liked it or
not before they were out of the nursery, at fifteen or sixteen
very likely. It would have been extremely odd, even upon this
showing, had one of them suddenly written the plays of
Shakespeare, I concluded, and I thought of that old gentleman,
who is dead now, but was a bishop, I think, who declared that
it was impossible for any woman, past, present, or to come, to
have the genius of Shakespeare. He wrote to the papers about
it. He also told a lady who applied to him for information that
cats do not as a matter of fact go to heaven, though they have,
he added, souls of a sort. How much thinking those old gentlemen used to save one! How the borders of ignorance shrank
back at their approach! Cats do not go to heaven. Women cannot write the plays of Shakespeare.
Be that as it may, I could not help thinking, as I looked at the
works of Shakespeare on the shelf, that the bishop was right at
least in this; it would have been impossible, completely and entirely, for any woman to have written the plays of Shakespeare
in the age of Shakespeare. Let me imagine, since facts are so
hard to come by, what would have happened had Shakespeare
had a wonderfully gifted sister, called Judith, let us say.
Shakespeare himself went, very probably,—his mother was an
heiress—to the grammar school, where he may have learnt Latin—Ovid, Virgil and Horace—and the elements of grammar and
logic. He was, it is well known, a wild boy who poached rabbits, perhaps shot a deer, and had, rather sooner than he
should have done, to marry a woman in the neighbourhood,
who bore him a child rather quicker than was right. That escapade sent him to seek his fortune in London. He had, it
seemed, a taste for the theatre; he began by holding horses at
the stage door. Very soon he got work in the theatre, became a
successful actor, and lived at the hub of the universe, meeting
everybody, knowing everybody, practising his art on the
boards, exercising his wits in the streets, and even getting access to the palace of the queen. Meanwhile his extraordinarily
gifted sister, let us suppose, remained at home. She was as adventurous, as imaginative, as agog to see the world as he was.
But she was not sent to school. She had no chance of learning
grammar and logic, let alone of reading Horace and Virgil. She
picked up a book now and then, one of her brother's perhaps,
39
and read a few pages. But then her parents came in and told
her to mend the stockings or mind the stew and not moon
about with books and papers. They would have spoken sharply
but kindly, for they were substantial people who knew the conditions of life for a woman and loved their daughter—indeed,
more likely than not she was the apple of her father's eye. Perhaps she scribbled some pages up in an apple loft on the sly
but was careful to hide them or set fire to them. Soon,
however, before she was out of her teens, she was to be betrothed to the son of a neighbouring wool-stapler. She cried
out that marriage was hateful to her, and for that she was
severely beaten by her father. Then he ceased to scold her. He
begged her instead not to hurt him, not to shame him in this
matter of her marriage. He would give her a chain of beads or
a fine petticoat, he said; and there were tears in his eyes. How
could she disobey him? How could she break his heart? The
force of her own gift alone drove her to it. She made up a small
parcel of her belongings, let herself down by a rope one
summer's night and took the road to London. She was not seventeen. The birds that sang in the hedge were not more musical than she was. She had the quickest fancy, a gift like her
brother's, for the tune of words. Like him, she had a taste for
the theatre. She stood at the stage door; she wanted to act, she
said. Men laughed in her face. The manager—a fat, looselipped
man—guffawed. He bellowed something about poodles dancing
and women acting—no woman, he said, could possibly be an
actress. He hinted—you can imagine what. She could get no
training in her craft. Could she even seek her dinner in a tavern or roam the streets at midnight? Yet her genius was for fiction and lusted to feed abundantly upon the lives of men and
women and the study of their ways. At last—for she was very
young, oddly like Shakespeare the poet in her face, with the
same grey eyes and rounded brows—at last Nick Greene the
actor-manager took pity on her; she found herself with child by
that gentleman and so—who shall measure the heat and violence of the poet's heart when caught and tangled in a woman's
body?—killed herself one winter's night and lies buried at some
cross-roads where the omnibuses now stop outside the
Elephant and Castle.
40
That, more or less, is how the story would run, I think, if a
woman in Shakespeare's day had had Shakespeare's genius.
But for my part, I agree with the deceased bishop, if such he
was—it is unthinkable that any woman in Shakespeare's day
should have had Shakespeare's genius. For genius like
Shakespeare's is not born among labouring, uneducated,
servile people. It was not born in England among the Saxons
and the Britons. It is not born to-day among the working
classes. How, then, could it have been born among women
whose work began, according to Professor Trevelyan, almost
before they were out of the nursery, who were forced to it by
their parents and held to it by all the power of law and custom?
Yet genius of a sort must have existed among women as it must
have existed among the working classes. Now and again an
Emily Brontë or a Robert Burns blazes out and proves its presence. But certainly it never got itself on to paper. When,
however, one reads of a witch being ducked, of a woman possessed by devils, of a wise woman selling herbs, or even of a
very remarkable man who had a mother, then I think we are on
the track of a lost novelist, a suppressed poet, of some mute
and inglorious Jane Austen, some Emily Brontë who dashed her
brains out on the moor or mopped and mowed about the highways crazed with the torture that her gift had put her to.
Indeed, I would venture to guess that Anon, who wrote so
many poems without singing them, was often a woman. It was
a woman Edward Fitzgerald, I think, suggested who made the
ballads and the folk-songs, crooning them to her children, beguiling her spinning with them, or the length of the winter's
night.
This may be true or it may be false—who can say?—but what
is true in it, so it seemed to me, reviewing the story of
Shakespeare's sister as I had made it, is that any woman born
with a great gift in the sixteenth century would certainly have
gone crazed, shot herself, or ended her days in some lonely
cottage outside the village, half witch, half wizard, feared and
mocked at. For it needs little skill in psychology to be sure that
a highly gifted girl who had tried to use her gift for poetry
would have been so thwarted and hindered by other people, so
tortured and pulled asunder by her own contrary instincts, that
she must have lost her health and sanity to a certainty. No girl
41
could have walked to London and stood at a stage door and
forced her way into the presence of actor-managers without
doing herself a violence and suffering an anguish which may
have been irrational—for chastity may be a fetish invented by
certain societies for unknown reasons—but were none the less
inevitable. Chastity had then, it has even now, a religious importance in a woman's life, and has so wrapped itself round
with nerves and instincts that to cut it free and bring it to the
light of day demands courage of the rarest. To have lived a free
life in London in the six teenth century would have meant for a
woman who was poet and playwright a nervous stress and dilemma which might well have killed her. Had she survived,
whatever she had written would have been twisted and deformed, issuing from a strained and morbid imagination. And
undoubtedly, I thought, looking at the shelf where there are no
plays by women, her work would have gone unsigned. That
refuge she would have sought certainly. It was the relic of the
sense of chastity that dictated anonymity to women even so
late as the nineteenth century. Currer Bell, George Eliot, George Sand, all the victims of inner strife as their writings
prove, sought ineffectively to veil themselves by using the
name of a man. Thus they did homage to the convention, which
if not implanted by the other sex was liberally encouraged by
them (the chief glory of a woman is not to be talked of, said
Pericles, himself a much-talked-of man) that publicity in women is detestable. Anonymity runs in their blood. The desire to
be veiled still possesses them. They are not even now as concerned about the health of their fame as men are, and, speaking generally, will pass a tombstone or a signpost without feeling an irresistible desire to cut their names on it, as Alf, Bert or
Chas. must do in obedience to their instinct, which murmurs if
it sees a fine woman go by, or even a dog, Ce chien est a moi.
And, of course, it may not be a dog, I thought, remembering
Parliament Square, the Sieges Allee and other avenues; it may
be a piece of land or a man with curly black hair. It is one of
the great advantages of being a woman that one can pass even
a very fine negress without wishing to make an Englishwoman
of her.
That woman, then, who was born with a gift of poetry in the
sixteenth century, was an unhappy woman, a woman at strife
42
against herself. All the conditions of her life, all her own instincts, were hostile to the state of mind which is needed to set
free whatever is in the brain. But what is the state of mind that
is most propitious to the act of creation? I asked. Can one come
by any notion of the state that furthers and makes possible that
strange activity? Here I opened the volume containing the Tragedies of Shakespeare. What was Shakespeare's state of mind,
for instance, when he wrote LEAR and ANTONY AND
CLEOPATRA? It was certainly the state of mind most favourable to poetry that there has ever existed. But Shakespeare
himself said nothing about it. We only know casually and by
chance that he 'never blotted a line'. Nothing indeed was ever
said by the artist himself about his state of mind until the
eighteenth century perhaps. Rousseau perhaps began it. At any
rate, by the nineteenth century self-consciousness had developed so far that it was the habit for men of letters to describe their minds in confessions and autobiographies. Their
lives also were written, and their letters were printed after
their deaths. Thus, though we do not know what Shakespeare
went through when he wrote LEAR, we do know what Carlyle
went through when he wrote the FRENCH REVOLUTION;
what Flaubert went through when he wrote MADAME
BOVARY; what Keats was going through when he tried to write
poetry against the coming death and the indifference of the
world.
And one gathers from this enormous modern literature of
confession and self-analysis that to write a work of genius is almost always a feat of prodigious difficulty. Everything is
against the likelihood that it will come from the writer's mind
whole and entire. Generally material circumstances are against
it. Dogs will bark; people will interrupt; money must be made;
health will break down. Further, accentuating all these difficulties and making them harder to bear is the world's notorious indifference. It does not ask people to write poems and
novels and histories; it does not need them. It does not care
whether Flaubert finds the right word or whether Carlyle scrupulously verifies this or that fact. Naturally, it will not pay for
what it does not want. And so the writer, Keats, Flaubert,
Carlyle, suffers, especially in the creative years of youth, every
form of distraction and discouragement. A curse, a cry of
43
agony, rises from those books of analysis and confession.
'Mighty poets in their misery dead'—that is the burden of their
song. If anything comes through in spite of all this, it is a miracle, and probably no book is born entire and uncrippled as it
was conceived.
But for women, I thought, looking at the empty shelves, these
difficulties were infinitely more formidable. In the first place,
to have a room of her own, let alone a quiet room or a soundproof room, was out of the question, unless her parents were
exceptionally rich or very noble, even up to the beginning of
the nineteenth century. Since her pin money, which depended
on the goodwill of her father, was only enough to keep her
clothed, she was debarred from such alleviations as came even
to Keats or Tennyson or Carlyle, all poor men, from a walking
tour, a little journey to France, from the separate lodging
which, even if it were miserable enough, sheltered them from
the claims and tyrannies of their families. Such material difficulties were formidable; but much worse were the immaterial.
The indifference of the world which Keats and Flaubert and
other men of genius have found so hard to bear was in her case
not indifference but hostility. The world did not say to her as it
said to them, Write if you choose; it makes no difference to me.
The world said with a guffaw, Write? What's the good of your
writing? Here the psychologists of Newnham and Girton might
come to our help, I thought, looking again at the blank spaces
on the shelves. For surely it is time that the effect of discouragement upon the mind of the artist should be measured, as I
have seen a dairy company measure the effect of ordinary milk
and Grade A milk upon the body of the rat. They set two rats in
cages side by side, and of the two one was furtive, timid and
small, and the other was glossy, bold and big. Now what food
do we feed women as artists upon? I asked, remembering, I
suppose, that dinner of prunes and custard. To answer that
question I had only to open the evening paper and to read that
Lord Birkenhead is of opinion—but really I am not going to
trouble to copy out Lord Birkenhead's opinion upon the writing
of women. What Dean Inge says I will leave in peace. The Harley Street specialist may be allowed to rouse the echoes of
Harley Street with his vociferations without raising a hair on
my head. I will quote, however, Mr Oscar Browning, because
44
Mr Oscar Browning was a great figure in Cambridge at one
time, and used to examine the students at Girton and Newnham. Mr Oscar Browning was wont to declare 'that the impression left on his mind, after looking over any set of examination
papers, was that, irrespective of the marks he might give, the
best woman was intellectually the inferior of the worst man'.
After saying that Mr Browning went back to his rooms—and it
is this sequel that endears him and makes him a human figure
of some bulk and majesty—he went back to his rooms and
found a stable-boy lying on the sofa—'a mere skeleton, his
cheeks were cavernous and sallow, his teeth were black, and
he did not appear to have the full use of his limbs… "That's Arthur" [said Mr Browning]. "He's a dear boy really and most
high-minded."' The two pictures always seem to me to complete each other. And happily in this age of biography the two
pictures often do complete each other, so that we are able to
interpret the opinions of great men not only by what they say,
but by what they do.
But though this is possible now, such opinions coming from
the lips of important people must have been formidable enough
even fifty years ago. Let us suppose that a father from the
highest motives did not wish his daughter to leave home and
become writer, painter or scholar. 'See what Mr Oscar Browning says,' he would say; and there so was not only Mr Oscar
Browning; there was the SATURDAY REVIEW; there was Mr
Greg—the 'essentials of a woman's being', said Mr Greg emphatically, 'are that THEY ARE SUPPORTED BY, AND THEY
MINISTER TO, MEN'—there was an enormous body of masculine opinion to the effect that nothing could be expected of women intellectually. Even if her father did not read out loud
these opinions, any girl could read them for herself; and the
reading, even in the nineteenth century, must have lowered
her vitality, and told profoundly upon her work. There would
always have been that assertion—you cannot do this, you are
incapable of doing that—to protest against, to overcome. Probably for a novelist this germ is no longer of much effect; for
there have been women novelists of merit. But for painters it
must still have some sting in it; and for musicians, I imagine, is
even now active and poisonous in the extreme. The woman
composer stands where the actress stood in the time of
45
Shakespeare. Nick Greene, I thought, remembering the story I
had made about Shakespeare's sister, said that a woman acting
put him in mind of a dog dancing. Johnson repeated the phrase
two hundred years later of women preaching. And here, I said,
opening a book about music, we have the very words used
again in this year of grace, 1928, of women who try to write
music. 'Of Mlle. Germaine Tailleferre one can only repeat Dr
Johnson's dictum concerning, a woman preacher, transposed
into terms of music. "Sir, a woman's composing is like a dog's
walking on his hind legs. It is not done well, but you are surprised to find it done at all."'5 So accurately does history repeat
itself.
Thus, I concluded, shutting Mr Oscar Browning's life and
pushing away the rest, it is fairly evident that even in the nineteenth century a woman was not encouraged to be an artist.
On the contrary, she was snubbed, slapped, lectured and exhorted. Her mind must have been strained and her vitality
lowered by the need of opposing this, of disproving that. For
here again we come within range of that very interesting and
obscure masculine complex which has had so much influence
upon the woman's movement; that deep-seated desire, not so
much that SHE shall be inferior as that HE shall be superior,
which plants him wherever one looks, not only in front of the
arts, but barring the way to politics too, even when the risk to
himself seems infinitesimal and the suppliant humble and devoted. Even Lady Bessborough, I remembered, with all her passion for politics, must humbly bow herself and write to Lord
Granville Leveson-Gower: '… notwithstanding all my violence
in politicks and talking so much on that subject, I perfectly
agree with you that no woman has any business to meddle with
that or any other serious business, farther than giving her
opinion (if she is ask'd).' And so she goes on to spend her enthusiasm where it meets with no obstacle whatsoever, upon
that immensely important subject, Lord Granville's maiden
speech in the House of Commons. The spectacle is certainly a
strange one, I thought. The history of men's opposition to
women's emancipation is more interesting perhaps than the
story of that emancipation itself. An amusing book might be
made of it if some young student at Girton or Newnham would
5.A SURVEY OF CONTEMPORARY MUSIC, Cecil Gray, P. 246.
46
collect examples and deduce a theory,—but she would need
thick gloves on her hands, and bars to protect her of solid gold.
But what is amusing now, I recollected, shutting Lady Bessborough, had to be taken in desperate earnest once. Opinions
that one now pastes in a book labelled cock-a-doodledum and
keeps for reading to select audiences on summer nights once
drew tears, I can assure you. Among your grandmothers and
great-grandmothers there were many that wept their eyes out.
Florence Nightingale shrieked aloud in her agony6
. Moreover,
it is all very well for you, who have got yourselves to college
and enjoy sitting-rooms—or is it only bed-sitting-rooms?—of
your own to say that genius should disregard such opinions;
that genius should be above caring what is said of it. Unfortunately, it is precisely the men or women of genius who mind
most what is said of them. Remember Keats. Remember the
words he had cut on his tombstone. Think of Tennyson; think
but I need hardly multiply instances of the undeniable, if very
fortunate, fact that it is the nature of the artist to mind excessively what is said about him. Literature is strewn with the
wreckage of men who have minded beyond reason the opinions
of others.
And this susceptibility of theirs is doubly unfortunate, I
thought, returning again to my original enquiry into what state
of mind is most propitious for creative work, because the mind
of an artist, in order to achieve the prodigious effort of freeing
whole and entire the work that is in him, must be incandescent, like Shakespeare's mind, I conjectured, looking at the
book which lay open at ANTONY AND CLEOPATRA. There
must be no obstacle in it, no foreign matter unconsumed.
For though we say that we know nothing about
Shakespeare's state of mind, even as we say that, we are saying something about Shakespeare's state of mind. The reason
perhaps why we know so little of Shakespeare—compared with
Donne or Ben Jonson or Milton—is that his grudges and spites
and antipathies are hidden from us. We are not held up by
some 'revelation' which reminds us of the writer. All desire to
protest, to preach, to proclaim an injury, to pay off a score, to
make the world the witness of some hardship or grievance was
6.See CASSANDRA, by Florence Nightingale, printed in THE CAUSE, by
R. Strachey.
47
fired out of him and consumed. Therefore his poetry flows from
him free and unimpeded. If ever a human being got his work
expressed completely, it was Shakespeare. If ever a mind was
incandescent, unimpeded, I thought, turning again to the bookcase, it was Shakespeare's mind.
48
Four
That one would find any woman in that state of mind in the sixteenth century was obviously impossible. One has only to think
of the Elizabethan tombstones with all those children kneeling
with clasped hands; and their early deaths; and to see their
houses with their dark, cramped rooms, to realize that no woman could have written poetry then. What one would expect to
find would be that rather later perhaps some great lady would
take advantage of her comparative freedom and comfort to
publish something with her name to it and risk being thought a
monster. Men, of course, are not snobs, I continued, carefully
eschewing 'the arrant feminism' of Miss Rebecca West; but
they appreciate with sympathy for the most part the efforts of
a countess to write verse. One would expect to find a lady of
title meeting with far greater encouragement than an unknown
Miss Austen or a Miss Brontë at that time would have met
with. But one would also expect to find that her mind was disturbed by alien emotions like fear and hatred and that her
poems showed traces of that disturbance. Here is Lady
Winchilsea, for example, I thought, taking down her poems.
She was born in the year 1661; she was noble both by birth
and by marriage; she was childless; she wrote poetry, and one
has only to open her poetry to find her bursting out in indignation against the position of women:
How we are fallen! fallen by mistaken rules,
And Education's more than Nature's fools;
Debarred from all improvements of the mind,
And to be dull, expected and designed;
And if someone would soar above the rest,
With warmer fancy, and ambition pressed,
So strong the opposing faction still appears,
The hopes to thrive can ne'er outweigh the fears.
Clearly her mind has by no means 'consumed all impediments and become incandescent'. On the contrary, it is harassed and distracted with hates and grievances. The human
race is split up for her into two parties. Men are the 'opposing
faction'; men are hated and feared, because they have the
49
power to bar her way to what she wants to do—which is to
write.
Alas! a woman that attempts the pen,
Such a presumptuous creature is esteemed,
The fault can by no virtue be redeemed.
They tell us we mistake our sex and way;
Good breeding, fashion, dancing, dressing, play,
Are the accomplishments we should desire;
To write, or read, or think, or to enquire,
Would cloud our beauty, and exhaust our time,
And interrupt the conquests of our prime.
Whilst the dull manage of a servile house
Is held by some our utmost art and use.
Indeed she has to encourage herself to write by supposing
that what she writes will never be published; to soothe herself
with the sad chant:
To some few friends, and to thy sorrows sing,
For groves of laurel thou wert never meant;
Be dark enough thy shades, and be thou there content.
Yet it is clear that could she have freed her mind from hate
and fear and not heaped it with bitterness and resentment, the
fire was hot within her. Now and again words issue of pure
poetry:
Nor will in fading silks compose,
Faintly the inimitable rose.
—they are rightly praised by Mr Murry, and Pope, it is
thought, remembered and appropriated those others:
Now the jonquille o'ercomes the feeble brain;
We faint beneath the aromatic pain.
It was a thousand pities that the woman who could write like
that, whose mind was tuned to nature and reflection, should
have been forced to anger and bitterness. But how could she
have helped herself? I asked, imagining the sneers and the
50
laughter, the adulation of the toadies, the scepticism of the
professional poet. She must have shut herself up in a room in
the country to write, and been torn asunder by bitterness and
scruples perhaps, though her husband was of the kindest, and
their married life perfection. She 'must have', I say, because
when one comes to seek out the facts about Lady Winchilsea,
one finds, as usual, that almost nothing is known about her.
She suffered terribly from melancholy, which we can explain at
least to some extent when we find her telling us how in the
grip of it she would imagine:
My lines decried, and my employment thought
An useless folly or presumptuous fault:
The employment, which was thus censured, was, as far as
one can see, the harmless one of rambling about the fields and
dreaming:
My hand delights to trace unusual things,
And deviates from the known and common way,
Nor will in fading silks compose,
Faintly the inimitable rose.
Naturally, if that was her habit and that was her delight, she
could only expect to be laughed at; and, accordingly, Pope or
Gay is said to have satirized her 'as a blue-stocking with an itch
for scribbling'. Also it is thought that she offended Gay by
laughing at him. She said that his TRIVIA showed that 'he was
more proper to walk before a chair than to ride in one'. But
this is all 'dubious gossip' and, says Mr Murry, 'uninteresting'.
But there I do not agree with him, for I should have liked to
have had more even of dubious gossip so that I might have
found out or made up some image of this melancholy lady, who
loved wandering in the fields and thinking about unusual
things and scorned, so rashly, so unwisely, 'the dull manage of
a servile house'. But she became diffuse, Mr Murry says. Her
gift is all grown about with weeds and bound with briars. It
had no chance of showing itself for the fine distinguished gift it
was. And so, putting, her back on the shelf, I turned to the other great lady, the Duchess whom Lamb loved, hare-brained,
fantastical Margaret of Newcastle, her elder, but her
51
contemporary. They were very different, but alike in this that
both were noble and both childless, and both were married to
the best of husbands. In both burnt the same passion for poetry
and both are disfigured and deformed by the same causes.
Open the Duchess and one finds the same outburst of rage.
'Women live like Bats or Owls, labour like Beasts, and die like
Worms… ' Margaret too might have been a poet; in our day all
that activity would have turned a wheel of some sort. As it was,
what could bind, tame or civilize for human use that wild, generous, untutored intelligence? It poured itself out, higgledypiggledy, in torrents of rhyme and prose, poetry and philosophy which stand congealed in quartos and folios that nobody
ever reads. She should have had a microscope put in her hand.
She should have been taught to look at the stars and reason
scientifically. Her wits were turned with solitude and freedom.
No one checked her. No one taught her. The professors fawned
on her. At Court they jeered at her. Sir Egerton Brydges complained of her coarseness—'as flowing from a female of high
rank brought up in the Courts'. She shut herself up at Welbeck
alone.
What a vision of loneliness and riot the thought of Margaret
Cavendish brings to mind! as if some giant cucumber had
spread itself over all the roses and carnations in the garden
and choked them to death. What a waste that the woman who
wrote 'the best bred women are those whose minds are civilest'
should have frittered her time away scribbling nonsense and
plunging ever deeper into obscurity and folly till the people
crowded round her coach when she issued out. Evidently the
crazy Duchess became a bogey to frighten clever girls with.
Here, I remembered, putting away the Duchess and opening
Dorothy Osborne's letters, is Dorothy writing to Temple about
the Duchess's new book. 'Sure the poore woman is a little distracted, shee could never bee soe rediculous else as to venture
at writeing book's and in verse too, if I should not sleep this
fortnight I should not come to that.'
And so, since no woman of sense and modesty could write
books, Dorothy, who was sensitive and melancholy, the very
opposite of the Duchess in temper, wrote nothing. Letters did
not count. A woman might write letters while she was sitting
by her father's sick-bed. She could write them by the fire whilst
52
the men talked without disturbing them. The strange thing is, I
thought, turning over the pages of Dorothy's letters, what a
gift that untaught and solitary girl had for the framing of a sentence, for the fashioning of a scene. Listen to her running on:
'After dinner wee sitt and talk till Mr B. com's in question
and then I am gon. the heat of the day is spent in reading or
working and about sixe or seven a Clock, I walke out into a
Common that lyes hard by the house where a great many
young wenches keep Sheep and Cow's and sitt in the shades
singing of Ballads; I goe to them and compare their voyces and
Beauty's to some Ancient Shepherdesses that I have read of
and finde a vaste difference there, but trust mee I think these
are as innocent as those could bee. I talke to them, and finde
they want nothing to make them the happiest People in the
world, but the knoledge that they are soe. most commonly
when we are in the middest of our discourse one looks aboute
her and spyes her Cow's goeing into the Corne and then away
they all run, as if they had wing's at theire heels. I that am not
soe nimble stay behinde, and when I see them driveing home
theire Cattle I think tis time for mee to retyre too. when I have
supped I goe into the Garden and soe to the syde of a small
River that runs by it where I sitt downe and wish you with
mee… '
One could have sworn that she had the makings of a writer in
her. But 'if I should not sleep this fortnight I should not come
to that'—one can measure the opposition that was in the air to
a woman writing when one finds that even a woman with a
great turn for writing has brought herself to believe that to
write a book was to be ridiculous, even to show oneself distracted. And so we come, I continued, replacing the single short
volume of Dorothy Osborne's letters upon the shelf, to Mrs
Behn.
And with Mrs Behn we turn a very important corner on the
road. We leave behind, shut up in their parks among their folios, those solitary great ladies who wrote without audience or
criticism, for their own delight alone. We come to town and rub
shoulders with ordinary people in the streets. Mrs Behn was a
middle-class woman with all the plebeian virtues of humour, vitality and courage; a woman forced by the death of her husband and some unfortunate adventures of her own to make her
53
living by her wits. She had to work on equal terms with men.
She made, by working very hard, enough to live on. The importance of that fact outweighs anything that she actually
wrote, even the splendid 'A Thousand Martyrs I have made', or
'Love in Fantastic Triumph sat', for here begins the freedom of
the mind, or rather the possibility that in the course of time the
mind will be free to write what it likes. For now that Aphra
Behn had done it, girls could go to their parents and say, You
need not give me an allowance; I can make money by my pen.
Of course the answer for many years to come was, Yes, by living the life of Aphra Behn! Death would be better! and the
door was slammed faster than ever. That profoundly interesting subject, the value that men set upon women's chastity and
its effect upon their education, here suggests itself for discussion, and might provide an interesting book if any student at
Girton or Newnham cared to go into the matter. Lady Dudley,
sitting in diamonds among the midges of a Scottish moor,
might serve for frontispiece. Lord Dudley, THE TIMES said
when Lady Dudley died the other day, 'a man of cultivated
taste and many accomplishments, was benevolent and bountiful, but whimsically despotic. He insisted upon his wife's wearing full dress, even at the remotest shooting-lodge in the Highlands; he loaded her with gorgeous jewels', and so on, 'he gave
her everything—always excepting any measure of responsibility'. Then Lord Dudley had a stroke and she nursed him and
ruled his estates with supreme competence for ever after. That
whimsical despotism was in the nineteenth century too.
But to return. Aphra Behn proved that money could be made
by writing at the sacrifice, perhaps, of certain agreeable qualities; and so by degrees writing became not merely a sign of
folly and a distracted mind, but was of practical importance. A
husband might die, or some disaster overtake the family. Hundreds of women began as the eighteenth century drew on to
add to their pin money, or to come to the rescue of their families by making translations or writing the innumerable bad novels which have ceased to be recorded even in text-books, but
are to be picked up in the fourpenny boxes in the Charing
Cross Road. The extreme activity of mind which showed itself
in the later eighteenth century among women—the talking, and
the meeting, the writing of essays on Shakespeare, the
54
translating of the classics—was founded on the solid fact that
women could make money by writing. Money dignifies what is
frivolous if unpaid for. It might still be well to sneer at 'blue
stockings with an itch for scribbling', but it could not be denied
that they could put money in their purses. Thus, towards the
end of the eighteenth century a change came about which, if I
were rewriting history, I should describe more fully and think
of greater importance than the Crusades or the Wars of the
Roses.
The middle-class woman began to write. For if PRIDE AND
PREJUDICE matters, and MIDDLEMARCH and VILLETTE and
WUTHERING HEIGHTS matter, then it matters far more than I
can prove in an hour's discourse that women generally, and not
merely the lonely aristocrat shut up in her country house
among her folios and her flatterers, took to writing. Without
those forerunners, Jane Austen and the Brontës and George
Eliot could no more have written than Shakespeare could have
written without Marlowe, or Marlowe without Chaucer, or
Chaucer without those forgotten poets who paved the ways
and tamed the natural savagery of the tongue. For masterpieces are not single and solitary births; they are the outcome
of many years of thinking in common, of thinking by the body
of the people, so that the experience of the mass is behind the
single voice. Jane Austen should have laid a wreath upon the
grave of Fanny Burney, and George Eliot done homage to the
robust shade of Eliza Carter—the valiant old woman who tied a
bell to her bedstead in order that she might wake early and
learn Greek. All women together ought to let flowers fall upon
the tomb of Aphra Behn, which is, most scandalously but
rather appropriately, in Westminster Abbey, for it was she who
earned them the right to speak their minds. It is she—shady
and amorous as she was—who makes it not quite fantastic for
me to say to you to-night: Earn five hundred a year by your
wits.
Here, then, one had reached the early nineteenth century.
And here, for the first time, I found several shelves given up
entirely to the works of women. But why, I could not help asking, as I ran my eyes over them, were they, with very few exceptions, all novels? The original impulse was to poetry. The
'supreme head of song' was a poetess. Both in France and in
55
England the women poets precede the women novelists.
Moreover, I thought, looking at the four famous names, what
had George Eliot in common with Emily Brontë? Did not Charlotte Brontë fail entirely to understand Jane Austen? Save for
the possibly relevant fact that not one of them had a child, four
more incongruous characters could not have met together in a
room—so much so that it is tempting to invent a meeting and a
dialogue between them. Yet by some strange force they were
all compelled when they wrote, to write novels. Had it
something to do with being born of the middle class, I asked;
and with the fact, which Miss Emily Davies a little later was so
strikingly to demonstrate, that the middle-class family in the
early nineteenth century was possessed only of a single sittingroom between them? If a woman wrote, she would have to
write in the common sitting-room. And, as Miss Nightingale
was so vehemently to complain,—"women never have an half
hour… that they can call their own"—she was always interrupted. Still it would be easier to write prose and fiction there
than to write poetry or a play. Less concentration is required.
Jane Austen wrote like that to the end of her days. 'How she
was able to effect all this', her nephew writes in his Memoir, 'is
surprising, for she had no separate study to repair to, and most
of the work must have been done in the general sitting-room,
subject to all kinds of casual interruptions. She was careful
that her occupation should not be suspected by servants or visitors or any persons beyond her own family party7
. Jane Austen
hid her manuscripts or covered them with a piece of blottingpaper. Then, again, all the literary training that a woman had
in the early nineteenth century was training in the observation
of character, in the analysis of emotion. Her sensibility had
been educated for centuries by the influences of the common
sitting-room. People's feelings were impressed on her; personal
relations were always before her eyes. Therefore, when the
middle-class woman took to writing, she naturally wrote novels, even though, as seems evident enough, two of the four
famous women here named were not by nature novelists. Emily
Brontë should have written poetic plays; the overflow of George Eliot's capacious mind should have spread itself when the
7.MEMOIR OF JANE AUSTEN, by her nephew, James Edward AustenLeigh.
56
creative impulse was spent upon history or biography. They
wrote novels, however; one may even go further, I said, taking
PRIDE AND PREJUDICE from the shelf, and say that they
wrote good novels. Without boasting or giving pain to the opposite sex, one may say that PRIDE AND PREJUDICE is a good
book. At any rate, one would not have been ashamed to have
been caught in the act of writing PRIDE AND PREJUDICE. Yet
Jane Austen was glad that a hinge creaked, so that she might
hide her manuscript before anyone came in. To Jane Austen
there was something discreditable in writing PRIDE AND
PREJUDICE. And, I wondered, would PRIDE AND PREJUDICE
have been a better novel if Jane Austen had not thought it necessary to hide her manuscript from visitors? I read a page or
two to see; but I could not find any signs that her circumstances had harmed her work in the slightest. That, perhaps,
was the chief miracle about it. Here was a woman about the
year 1800 writing without hate, without bitterness, without
fear, without protest, without preaching. That was how
Shakespeare wrote, I thought, looking at ANTONY AND
CLEOPATRA; and when people compare Shakespeare and Jane
Austen, they may mean that the minds of both had consumed
all impediments; and for that reason we do not know Jane
Austen and we do not know Shakespeare, and for that reason
Jane Austen pervades every word that she wrote, and so does
Shakespeare. If Jane Austen suffered in any way from her circumstances it was in the narrowness of life that was imposed
upon her. It was impossible for a woman to go about alone. She
never travelled; she never drove through London in an omnibus or had luncheon in a shop by herself. But perhaps it was
the nature of Jane Austen not to want what she had not. Her
gift and her circumstances matched each other completely. But
I doubt whether that was true of Charlotte Brontë, I said, opening JANE EYRE and laying it beside PRIDE AND PREJUDICE.
I opened it at chapter twelve and my eye was caught by the
phrase 'Anybody may blame me who likes'. What were they
blaming Charlotte Brontë for? I wondered. And I read how Jane
Eyre used to go up on to the roof when Mrs Fairfax was making jellies and looked over the fields at the distant view. And
then she longed—and it was for this that they blamed her—that
'then I longed for a power of vision which might overpass that
57
limit; which might reach the busy world, towns, regions full of
life I had heard of but never seen: that then I desired more of
practical experience than I possessed; more of intercourse with
my kind, of acquaintance with variety of character than was
here within my reach. I valued what was good in Mrs Fairfax,
and what was good in Adele; but I believed in the existence of
other and more vivid kinds of goodness, and what I believed in
I wished to behold.
'Who blames me? Many, no doubt, and I shall he called discontented. I could not help it: the restlessness was in my
nature; it agitated me to pain sometimes…
'It is vain to say human beings ought to be satisfied with
tranquillity: they must have action; and they will make it if they
cannot find it. Millions are condemned to a stiller doom than
mine, and millions are in silent revolt against their lot. Nobody
knows how many rebellions ferment in the masses of life which
people earth. Women are supposed to be very calm generally:
but women feel just as men feel; they need exercise for their
faculties and a field for their efforts as much as their brothers
do; they suffer from too rigid a restraint, too absolute a stagnation, precisely as men would suffer; and it is narrow-minded in
their more privileged fellow-creatures to say that they ought to
confine themselves to making puddings and knitting stockings,
to playing on the piano and embroidering bags. It is thoughtless to condemn them, or laugh at them, if they seek to do
more or learn more than custom has pronounced necessary for
their sex.
'When thus alone I not unfrequently heard Grace Poole's
laugh… '
That is an awkward break, I thought. It is upsetting to come
upon Grace Poole all of a sudden. The continuity is disturbed.
One might say, I continued, laying the book down beside
PRIDE AND PREJUDICE, that the woman who wrote those
pages had more genius in her than Jane Austen; but if one
reads them over and marks that jerk in them, that indignation,
one sees that she will never get her genius expressed whole
and entire. Her books will be deformed and twisted. She will
write in a rage where she should write calmly. She will write
foolishly where she should write wisely. She will write of herself where she should write of her characters. She is at war
58
with her lot. How could she help but die young, cramped and
thwarted?
One could not but play for a moment with the thought of
what might have happened if Charlotte Brontë had possessed
say three hundred a year—but the foolish woman sold the
copyright of her novels outright for fifteen hundred pounds;
had somehow possessed more knowledge of the busy world,
and towns and regions full of life; more practical experience,
and intercourse with her kind and acquaintance with a variety
of character. In those words she puts her finger exactly not
only upon her own defects as a novelist but upon those of her
sex at that time. She knew, no one better, how enormously her
genius would have profited if it had not spent itself in solitary
visions over distant fields; if experience and intercourse and
travel had been granted her. But they were not granted; they
were withheld; and we must accept the fact that all those good
novels, VILLETTE, EMMA, WUTHERING HEIGHTS,
MIDDLEMARCH, were written by women without more experience of life than could enter the house of a respectable clergyman; written too in the common sitting-room of that respectable house and by women so poor that they could not afford to
buy more than a few quires of paper at a time upon which to
write WUTHERING HEIGHTS or JANE EYRE. One of them, it is
true, George Eliot, escaped after much tribulation, but only to
a secluded villa in St John's Wood. And there she settled down
in the shadow of the world's disapproval. 'I wish it to be understood', she wrote, 'that I should never invite anyone to come
and see me who did not ask for the invitation'; for was she not
living in sin with a married man and might not the sight of her
damage the chastity of Mrs Smith or whoever it might be that
chanced to call? One must submit to the social convention, and
be 'cut off from what is called the world'. At the same time, on
the other side of Europe, there was a young man living freely
with this gypsy or with that great lady; going to the wars; picking up unhindered and uncensored all that varied experience of
human life which served him so splendidly later when he came
to write his books. Had Tolstoi lived at the Priory in seclusion
with a married lady 'cut off from what is called the world',
however edifying the moral lesson, he could scarcely, I
thought, have written WAR AND PEACE.
59
But one could perhaps go a little deeper into the question of
novel-writing and the effect of sex upon the novelist. If one
shuts one's eyes and thinks of the novel as a whole, it would
seem to be a creation owning a certain looking-glass likeness
to life, though of course with simplifications and distortions innumerable. At any rate, it is a structure leaving a shape on the
mind's eye, built now in squares, now pagoda shaped, now
throwing out wings and arcades, now solidly compact and
domed like the Cathedral of Saint Sofia at Constantinople. This
shape, I thought, thinking back over certain famous novels,
starts in one the kind of emotion that is appropriate to it. But
that emotion at once blends itself with others, for the 'shape' is
not made by the relation of stone to stone, but by the relation
of human being to human being. Thus a novel starts in us all
sorts of antagonistic and opposed emotions. Life conflicts with
something that is not life. Hence the difficulty of coming to any
agreement about novels, and the immense sway that our
private prejudices have upon us. On the one hand we feel
You—John the hero—must live, or I shall be in the depths of
despair. On the other, we feel, Alas, John, you must die, because the shape of the book requires it. Life conflicts with
something that is not life. Then since life it is in part, we judge
it as life. James is the sort of man I most detest, one says. Or,
This is a farrago of absurdity. I could never feel anything of the
sort myself. The whole structure, it is obvious, thinking back on
any famous novel, is one of infinite complexity, because it is
thus made up of so many different judgements, of so many different kinds of emotion. The wonder is that any book so composed holds together for more than a year or two, or can possibly mean to the English reader what it means for the Russian
or the Chinese. But they do hold together occasionally very remarkably. And what holds them together in these rare instances of survival (I was thinking of WAR AND PEACE) is
something that one calls integrity, though it has nothing to do
with paying one's bills or behaving honourably in an emergency. What one means by integrity, in the case of the novelist,
is the conviction that he gives one that this is the truth. Yes,
one feels, I should never have thought that this could be so; I
have never known people behaving like that. But you have convinced me that so it is, so it happens. One holds every phrase,
60
every scene to the light as one reads—for Nature seems, very
oddly, to have provided us with an inner light by which to
judge of the novelist's integrity or disintegrity. Or perhaps it is
rather that Nature, in her most irrational mood, has traced in
invisible ink on the walls of the mind a premonition which
these great artists confirm; a sketch which only needs to be
held to the fire of genius to become visible. When one so exposes it and sees it come to life one exclaims in rapture, But
this is what I have always felt and known and desired! And one
boils over with excitement, and, shutting the book even with a
kind of reverence as if it were something very precious, a
stand-by to return to as long as one lives, one puts it back on
the shelf, I said, taking WAR AND PEACE and putting it back in
its place. If, on the other hand, these poor sentences that one
takes and tests rouse first a quick and eager response with
their bright colouring and their dashing gestures but there
they stop: something seems to check them in their development: or if they bring to light only a faint scribble in that
corner and a blot over there, and nothing appears whole and
entire, then one heaves a sigh of disappointment and says.
Another failure. This novel has come to grief somewhere.
And for the most part, of course, novels do come to grief
somewhere. The imagination falters under the enormous
strain. The insight is confused; it can no longer distinguish
between the true and the false, it has no longer the strength to
go on with the vast labour that calls at every moment for the
use of so many different faculties. But how would all this be affected by the sex of the novelist, I wondered, looking at JANE
EYRE and the others. Would the fact of her sex in any way interfere with the integrity of a woman novelist—that integrity
which I take to be the backbone of the writer? Now, in the passages I have quoted from JANE EYRE, it is clear that anger was
tampering with the integrity of Charlotte Brontë the novelist.
She left her story, to which her entire devotion was due, to attend to some personal grievance. She remembered that she
had been starved of her proper due of experience—she had
been made to stagnate in a parsonage mending stockings when
she wanted to wander free over the world. Her imagination
swerved from indignation and we feel it swerve. But there
were many more influences than anger tugging at her
61
imagination and deflecting it from its path. Ignorance, for instance. The portrait of Rochester is drawn in the dark. We feel
the influence of fear in it; just as we constantly feel an acidity
which is the result of oppression, a buried suffering smouldering beneath her passion, a rancour which contracts those
books, splendid as they are, with a spasm of pain.
And since a novel has this correspondence to real life, its values are to some extent those of real life. But it is obvious that
the values of women differ very often from the values which
have been made by the other sex; naturally, this is so. Yet it is
the masculine values that prevail. Speaking crudely, football
and sport are 'important'; the worship of fashion, the buying of
clothes 'trivial'. And these values are inevitably transferred
from life to fiction. This is an important book, the critic assumes, because it deals with war. This is an insignificant book
because it deals with the feelings of women in a drawing-room.
A scene in a battle-field is more important than a scene in a
shop—everywhere and much more subtly the difference of
value persists. The whole structure, therefore, of the early
nineteenth-century novel was raised, if one was a woman, by a
mind which was slightly pulled from the straight, and made to
alter its clear vision in deference to external authority. One has
only to skim those old forgotten novels and listen to the tone of
voice in which they are written to divine that the writer was
meeting criticism; she was saying this by way of aggression, or
that by way of conciliation. She was admitting that she was
'only a woman', or protesting that she was 'as good as a man'.
She met that criticism as her temperament dictated, with docility and diffidence, or with anger and emphasis. It does not matter which it was; she was thinking of something other than the
thing itself. Down comes her book upon our heads. There was a
flaw in the centre of it. And I thought of all the women's novels
that lie scattered, like small pock-marked apples in an orchard,
about the second-hand book shops of London. It was the flaw in
the centre that had rotted them. She had altered her values in
deference to the opinion of others.
But how impossible it must have been for them not to budge
either to the right or to the left. What genius, what integrity it
must have required in face of all that criticism, in the midst of
that purely patriarchal society, to hold fast to the thing as they
62
saw it without shrinking. Only Jane Austen did it and Emily
Brontë. It is another feather, perhaps the finest, in their caps.
They wrote as women write, not as men write. Of all the thousand women who wrote novels then, they alone entirely ignored the perpetual admonitions of the eternal pedagogue—write this, think that. They alone were deaf to that
persistent voice, now grumbling, now patronizing, now domineering, now grieved, now shocked, now angry, now avuncular,
that voice which cannot let women alone, but must be at them,
like some too-conscientious governess, adjuring them, like Sir
Egerton Brydges, to be refined; dragging even into the criticism of poetry criticism of sex;8 admonishing them, if they
would be good and win, as I suppose, some shiny prize, to keep
within certain limits which the gentleman in question thinks
suitable—'… female novelists should only aspire to excellence
by courageously acknowledging the limitations of their sex'.9
That puts the matter in a nutshell, and when I tell you, rather
to your surprise, that this sentence was written not in August
1828 but in August 1928, you will agree, I think, that however
delightful it is to us now, it represents a vast body of opinion—I
am not going to stir those old pools; I take only what chance
has floated to my feet—that was far more vigorous and far
more vocal a century ago. It would have needed a very stalwart
young woman in 1828 to disregard all those snubs and chidings and promises of prizes. One must have been something of
a firebrand to say to oneself, Oh, but they can't buy literature
too. Literature is open to everybody. I refuse to allow you,
Beadle though you are, to turn me off the grass. Lock up your
libraries if you like; but there is no gate, no lock, no bolt, that
you can set upon the freedom of my mind.
But whatever effect discouragement and criticism had upon
their writing—and I believe that they had a very great effect—that was unimportant compared with the other difficulty
8.[She] has a metaphysical purpose, and that is a dangerous obsession,
especially with a woman, for women rarely possess men's healthy love of
rhetoric. It is a strange lack in the sex which is in other things more primitive and more materialistic.'—NEW CRITERION, June 1928.
9.'If, like the reporter, you believe that female novelists should only aspire to excellence by courageously acknowledging the limitations of their
sex (Jane Austen [has] demonstrated how gracefully this gesture can be
accomplished… ).'—LIFE AND LETTERS, August 1928.
63
which faced them (I was still considering those early
nineteenth-century novelists) when they came to set their
thoughts on paper—that is that they had no tradition behind
them, or one so short and partial that it was of little help. For
we think back through our mothers if we are women. It is useless to go to the great men writers for help, however much one
may go to them for pleasure. Lamb, Browne, Thackeray, Newman, Sterne, Dickens, De Quincey—whoever it may be—never
helped a woman yet, though she may have learnt a few tricks
of them and adapted them to her use. The weight, the pace, the
stride of a man's mind are too unlike her own for her to lift
anything substantial from him successfully. The ape is too distant to be sedulous. Perhaps the first thing she would find, setting pen to paper, was that there was no common sentence
ready for her use. All the great novelists like Thackeray and
Dickens and Balzac have written a natural prose, swift but not
slovenly, expressive but not precious, taking their own tint
without ceasing to be common property. They have based it on
the sentence that was current at the time. The sentence that
was current at the beginning of the nineteenth century ran
something like this perhaps: 'The grandeur of their works was
an argument with them, not to stop short, but to proceed. They
could have no higher excitement or satisfaction than in the exercise of their art and endless generations of truth and beauty.
Success prompts to exertion; and habit facilitates success.'
That is a man's sentence; behind it one can see Johnson, Gibbon and the rest. It was a sentence that was unsuited for a
woman's use. Charlotte Brontë, with all her splendid gift for
prose, stumbled and fell with that clumsy weapon in her hands.
George Eliot committed atrocities with it that beggar description. Jane Austen looked at it and laughed at it and devised a
perfectly natural, shapely sentence proper for her own use and
never departed from it. Thus, with less genius for writing than
Charlotte Brontë, she got infinitely more said. Indeed, since
freedom and fullness of expression are of the essence of the
art, such a lack of tradition, such a scarcity and inadequacy of
tools, must have told enormously upon the writing of women.
Moreover, a book is not made of sentences laid end to end, but
of sentences built, if an image helps, into arcades or domes.
And this shape too has been made by men out of their own
64
needs for their own uses. There is no reason to think that the
form of the epic or of the poetic play suit a woman any more
than the sentence suits her. But all the older forms of literature
were hardened and set by the time she became a writer. The
novel alone was young enough to be soft in her hands another
reason, perhaps, why she wrote novels. Yet who shall say that
even now 'the novel' (I give it inverted commas to mark my
sense of the words' inadequacy), who shall say that even this
most pliable of all forms is rightly shaped for her use? No
doubt we shall find her knocking that into shape for herself
when she has the free use of her limbs; and providing some
new vehicle, not necessarily in verse, for the poetry in her. For
it is the poetry that is still denied outlet. And I went on to ponder how a woman nowadays would write a poetic tragedy in
five acts. Would she use verse?—would she not use prose
rather?
But these are difficult questions which lie in the twilight of
the future. I must leave them, if only because they stimulate
me to wander from my subject into trackless forests where I
shall be lost and, very likely, devoured by wild beasts. I do not
want, and I am sure that you do not want me, to broach that
very dismal subject, the future of fiction. so that I will only
pause here one moment to draw your attention to the great
part which must be played in that future so far as women are
concerned by physical conditions. The book has somehow to be
adapted to the body, and at a venture one would say that
women's books should be shorter, more concentrated, than
those of men, and framed so that they do not need long hours
of steady and uninterrupted work. For interruptions there will
always be. Again, the nerves that feed the brain would seem to
differ in men and women, and if you are going to make them
work their best and hardest, you must find out what treatment
suits them—whether these hours of lectures, for instance,
which the monks devised, presumably, hundreds of years ago,
suit them—what alternations of work and rest they need, interpreting rest not as doing nothing but as doing something but
something that is different; and what should that difference
be? All this should be discussed and discovered; all this is part
of the question of women and fiction. And yet, I continued, approaching the bookcase again, where shall I find that elaborate
65
study of the psychology of women by a woman? If through their
incapacity to play football women are not going to be allowed
to practise medicine—
Happily my thoughts were now given another turn.
66
Five
I had come at last, in the course of this rambling, to the shelves
which hold books by the living; by women and by men; for
there are almost as many books written by women now as by
men. Or if that is not yet quite true, if the male is still the voluble sex, it is certainly true that women no longer write novels
solely. There are Jane Harrison's books on Greek archaeology;
Vernon Lee's books on aesthetics; Gertrude Bell's books on
Persia. There are books on all sorts of subjects which a generation ago no woman could have touched. There are poems and
plays and criticism; there are histories and biographies, books
of travel and books of scholarship and research; there are even
a few philosophies and books about science and economics.
And though novels predominate, novels themselves may very
well have changed from association with books of a different
feather. The natural simplicity, the epic age of women's writing, may have gone. Reading and criticism may have given her
a wider range, a greater subtlety. The impulse towards autobiography may be spent. She may be beginning to use writing as
an art, not as a method of selfexpression. Among these new
novels one might find an answer to several such questions.
I took down one of them at random. It stood at the very end
of the shelf, was called LIFE'S ADVENTURE, or some such
title, by Mary Carmichael, and was published in this very
month of October. It seems to be her first book, I said to myself, but one must read it as if it were the last volume in a fairly
long series, continuing all those other books that I have been
glancing at—Lady Winchilsea's poems and Aphra Behn's plays
and the novels of the four great novelists. For books continue
each other, in spite of our habit of judging them separately.
And I must also consider her—this unknown woman—as the
descendant of all those other women whose circumstances I
have been glancing at and see what she inherits of their characteristics and restrictions. So, with a sigh, because novels so
often provide an anodyne and not an antidote, glide one into
torpid slumbers instead of rousing one with a burning brand, I
settled down with a notebook and a pencil to make what I
could of Mary Carmichael's first novel, LIFE'S ADVENTURE.
67
To begin with, I ran my eye up and down the page. I am going to get the hang of her sentences first, I said, before I load
my memory with blue eyes and brown and the relationship that
there may be between Chloe and Roger. There will be time for
that when I have decided whether she has a pen in her hand or
a pickaxe. So I tried a sentence or two on my tongue. Soon it
was obvious that something was not quite in order. The smooth
gliding of sentence after sentence was interrupted. Something
tore, something scratched; a single word here and there
flashed its torch in my eyes. She was 'unhanding' herself as
they say in the old plays. She is like a person striking a match
that will not light, I thought. But why, I asked her as if she
were present, are Jane Austen's sentences not of the right
shape for you? Must they all be scrapped because Emma and
Mr Woodhouse are dead? Alas, I sighed, that it should be so.
For while Jane Austen breaks from melody to melody as Mozart
from song to song, to read this writing was like being out at
sea in an open boat. Up one went, down one sank. This terseness, this short-windedness, might mean that she was afraid of
something; afraid of being called 'sentimental' perhaps; or she
remembers that women's writing has been called flowery and
so provides a superfluity of thorns; but until I have read a
scene with some care, I cannot be surewhether she is being
herself or someone else. At any rate, she does not lower one's
vitality, I thought, reading more carefully. But she is heaping
up too many facts. She will not be able to use half of them in a
book of this size. (It was about half the length of JANE EYRE.)
However, by some means or other she succeeded in getting us
all—Roger, Chloe, Olivia, Tony and Mr Bigham—in a canoe up
the river. Wait a moment, I said, leaning back in my chair, I
must consider the whole thing more carefully before I go any
further.
I am almost sure, I said to myself, that Mary Carmichael is
playing a trick on us. For I feel as one feels on a switchback
railway when the car, instead of sinking, as one has been led to
expect, swerves up again. Mary is tampering with the expected
sequence. First she broke the sentence; now she has broken
the sequence. Very well, she has every right to do both these
things if she does them not for the sake of breaking, but for the
sake of creating. Which of the two it is I cannot be sure until
68
she has faced herself with a situation. I will give her every
liberty, I said, to choose what that situation shall be; she shall
make it of tin cans and old kettles if she likes; but she must
convince me that she believes it to be a situation; and then
when she has made it she must face it. She must jump. And,
determined to do my duty by her as reader if she would do her
duty by me as writer, I turned the page and read… I am sorry
to break off so abruptly. Are there no men present? Do you
promise me that behind that red curtain over there the figure
of Sir Charles Biron is not concealed? We are all women you
assure me? Then I may tell you that the very next words I read
were these—'Chloe liked Olivia… ' Do not start. Do not blush.
Let us admit in the privacy of our own society that these things
sometimes happen. Sometimes women do like women.
'Chloe liked Olivia,' I read. And then it struck me how immense a change was there. Chloe liked Olivia perhaps for the
first time in literature. Cleopatra did not like Octavia. And how
completely ANTONY AND CLEOPATRA would have been
altered had she done so! As it is, I thought, letting my mind, I
am afraid, wander a little from LIFE'S ADVENTURE, the whole
thing is simplified, conventionalized, if one dared say it, absurdly. Cleopatra's only feeling about Octavia is one of jealousy. Is she taller than I am? How does she do her hair? The
play, perhaps, required no more. But how interesting it would
have been if the relationship between the two women had been
more complicated. All these relationships between women, I
thought, rapidly recalling the splendid gallery of fictitious women, are too simple. So much has been left out, unattempted.
And I tried to remember any case in the course of my reading
where two women are represented as friends. There is an attempt at it in DIANA OF THE CROSSWAYS. They are confidantes, of course, in Racine and the Greek tragedies. They are
now and then mothers and daughters. But almost without exception they are shown in their relation to men. It was strange
to think that all the great women of fiction were, until Jane
Austen's day, not only seen by the other sex, but seen only in
relation to the other sex. And how small a part of a woman's
life is that; and how little can a man know even of that when he
observes it through the black or rosy spectacles which sex puts
upon his nose. Hence, perhaps, the peculiar nature of woman
69
in fiction; the astonishing extremes of her beauty and horror;
her alternations between heavenly goodness and hellish depravity—for so a lover would see her as his love rose or sank,
was prosperous or unhappy. This is not so true of the
nineteenth-century novelists, of course. Woman becomes much
more various and complicated there. Indeed it was the desire
to write about women perhaps that led men by degrees to
abandon the poetic drama which, with its violence, could make
so little use of them, and to devise the novel as a more fitting
receptacle. Even so it remains obvious, even in the writing of
Proust, that a man is terribly hampered and partial in his
knowledge of women, as a woman in her knowledge of men.
Also, I continued, looking down at the page again, it is becoming evident that women, like men, have other interests besides the perennial interests of domesticity. 'Chloe liked Olivia.
They shared a laboratory together… ' I read on and discovered
that these two young women were engaged in mincing liver,
which is, it seems, a cure for pernicious anaemia; although one
of them was married and had—I think I am right in stating—two small children. Now all that, of course, has had to be
left out, and thus the splendid portrait of the fictitious woman
is much too simple and much too monotonous. Suppose, for instance, that men were only represented in literature as the lovers of women, and were never the friends of men, soldiers,
thinkers, dreamers; how few parts in the plays of Shakespeare
could be allotted to them; how literature would suffer! We
might perhaps have most of Othello; and a good deal of Antony; but no Caesar, no Brutus, no Hamlet, no Lear, no
Jaques—literature would be incredibly impoverished, as indeed
literature is impoverished beyond our counting by the doors
that have been shut upon women. Married against their will,
kept in one room, and to one occupation, how could a dramatist give a full or interesting or truthful account of them? Love
was the only possible interpreter. The poet was forced to be
passionate or bitter, unless indeed he chose to 'hate women',
which meant more often than not that he was unattractive to
them.
Now if Chloe likes Olivia and they share a laboratory, which
of itself will make their friendship more varied and lasting because it will be less personal; if Mary Carmichael knows how to
70
write, and I was beginning to enjoy some quality in her style; if
she has a room to herself, of which I am not quite sure; if she
has five hundred a year of her own—but that remains to be
proved—then I think that something of great importance has
happened.
For if Chloe likes Olivia and Mary Carmichael knows how to
express it she will light a torch in that vast chamber where
nobody has yet been. It is all half lights and profound shadows
like those serpentine caves where one goes with a candle peering up and down, not knowing where one is stepping. And I
began to read the book again, and read how Chloe watched
Olivia put a jar on a shelf and say how it was time to go home
to her children. That is a sight that has never been seen since
the world began, I exclaimed. And I watched too, very curiously. For I wanted to see how Mary Carmichael set to work to
catch those unrecorded gestures, those unsaid or half-said
words, which form themselves, no more palpably than the
shadows of moths on the ceiling, when women are alone, unlit
by the capricious and coloured light of the other sex. She will
need to hold her breath, I said, reading on, if she is to do it; for
women are so suspicious of any interest that has not some obvious motive behind it, so terribly accustomed to concealment
and suppression, that they are off at the flicker of an eye
turned observingly in their direction. The only way for you to
do it, I thought, addressing Mary Carmichael as if she were
there, would be to talk of something else, looking steadily out
of the window, and thus note, not with a pencil in a notebook,
but in the shortest of shorthand, in words that are hardly syllabled yet, what happens when Olivia—this organism that has
been under the shadow of the rock these million years—feels
the light fall on it, and sees coming her way a piece of strange
food—knowledge, adventure, art. And she reaches out for it, I
thought, again raising my eyes from the page, and has to devise some entirely new combination of her resources, so highly
developed for other purposes, so as to absorb the new into the
old without disturbing the infinitely intricate and elaborate balance of the whole.
But, alas, I had done what I had determined not to do; I had
slipped unthinkingly into praise of my own sex. 'Highly developed'—'infinitely intricate'—such are undeniably terms of
71
praise, and to praise one's own sex is always suspect, often
silly; moreover, in this case, how could one justify it? One could
not go to the map and say Columbus discovered America and
Columbus was a woman; or take an apple and remark, Newton
discovered the laws of gravitation and Newton was a woman;
or look into the sky and say aeroplanes are flying overhead and
aeroplanes were invented by women. There is no mark on the
wall to measure the precise height of women. There are no
yard measures, neatly divided into the fractions of an inch, that
one can lay against the qualities of a good mother or the devotion of a daughter, or the fidelity of a sister, or the capacity of
a housekeeper. Few women even now have been graded at the
universities; the great trials of the professions, army and navy,
trade, politics and diplomacy have hardly tested them. They remain even at this moment almost unclassified. But if I want to
know all that a human being can tell me about Sir Hawley
Butts, for instance, I have only to open Burke or Debrett and I
shall find that he took such and such a degree; owns a hall; has
an heir; was Secretary to a Board; represented Great Britain in
Canada; and has received a certain number of degrees, offices,
medals and other distinctions by which his merits are stamped
upon him indelibly. Only Providence can know more about Sir
Hawley Butts than that.
When, therefore, I say 'highly developed', 'infinitely intricate'
of women, I am unable to verify my words either in Whitaker,
Debrett or the University Calendar. In this predicament what
can I do? And I looked at the bookcase again. There were the
biographies: Johnson and Goethe and Carlyle and Sterne and
Cowper and Shelley and Voltaire and Browning and many others. And I began thinking of all those great men who have for
one reason or another admired, sought out, lived with, confided in, made love to, written of, trusted in, and shown what
can only be described as some need of and dependence upon
certain persons of the opposite sex. That all these relationships
were absolutely Platonic I would not affirm, and Sir William
Joynson Hicks would probably deny. But we should wrong
these illustrious men very greatly if we insisted that they got
nothing from these alliances but comfort, flattery and the
pleasures of the body. What they got, it is obvious, was
something that their own sex was unable to supply; and it
72
would not be rash, perhaps, to define it further, without quoting the doubtless rhapsodical words of the poets, as some stimulus; some renewal of creative power which is in the gift only
of the opposite sex to bestow. He would open the door of
drawing-room or nursery, I thought, and find her among her
children perhaps, or with a piece of embroidery on her
knee—at any rate, the centre of some different order and system of life, and the contrast between this world and his own,
which might be the law courts or the House of Commons,
would at once refresh and invigorate; and there would follow,
even in the simplest talk, such a natural difference of opinion
that the dried ideas in him would be fertilized anew; and the
sight of her creating in a different medium from his own would
so quicken his creative power that insensibly his sterile mind
would begin to plot again, and he would find the phrase or the
scene which was lacking when he put on his hat to visit her.
Every Johnson has his Thrale, and holds fast to her for some
such reasons as these, and when the Thrale marries her Italian
music master Johnson goes half mad with rage and disgust, not
merely that he will miss his pleasant evenings at Streatham,
but that the light of his life will be 'as if gone out'.
And without being Dr Johnson or Goethe or Carlyle or
Voltaire, one may feel, though very differently from these great
men, the nature of this intricacy and the power of this highly
developed creative faculty among women. One goes into the
room—but the resources of the English language would he
much put to the stretch, and whole flights of words would need
to wing their way illegitimately into existence before a woman
could say what happens when she goes into a room. The rooms
differ so completely; they are calm or thunderous; open on to
the sea, or, on the contrary, give on to a prison yard; are hung
with washing; or alive with opals and silks; are hard as horsehair or soft as feathers—one has only to go into any room in
any street for the whole of that extremely complex force of
femininity to fly in one's face. How should it be otherwise? For
women have sat indoors all these millions of years, so that by
this time the very walls are permeated by their creative force,
which has, indeed, so overcharged the capacity of bricks and
mortar that it must needs harness itself to pens and brushes
and business and politics. But this creative power differs
73
greatly from the creative power of men. And one must conclude that it would be a thousand pities if it were hindered or
wasted, for it was won by centuries of the most drastic discipline, and there is nothing to take its place. It would be a thousand pities if women wrote like men, or lived like men, or
looked like men, for if two sexes are quite inadequate, considering the vastness and variety of the world, how should we
manage with one only? Ought not education to bring out and
fortify the differences rather than the similarities? For we have
too much likeness as it is, and if an explorer should come back
and bring word of other sexes looking through the branches of
other trees at other skies, nothing would he of greater service
to humanity; and we should have the immense pleasure into
the bargain of watching Professor X rush for his measuringrods to prove himself 'superior'.
Mary Carmichael, I thought, still hovering at a little distance
above the page, will have her work cut out for her merely as an
observer. I am afraid indeed that she will be tempted to become, what I think the less interesting branch of the species—the naturalist-novelist, and not the contemplative. There
are so many new facts for her to observe. She will not need to
limit herself any longer to the respectable houses of the upper
middle classes. She will go without kindness or condescension,
but in the spirit of fellowship, into those small, scented rooms
where sit the courtesan, the harlot and the lady with the pug
dog. There they still sit in the rough and ready-made clothes
that the male writer has had perforce to clap upon their
shoulders. But Mary Carmichael will have out her scissors and
fit them close to every hollow and angle. It will be a curious
sight, when it comes, to see these women as they are, but we
must wait a little, for Mary Carmichael will still be encumbered
with that self-consciousness in the presence of 'sin' which is
the legacy of our sexual barbarity. She will still wear the
shoddy old fetters of class on her feet.
However, the majority of women are neither harlots nor
courtesans; nor do they sit clasping pug dogs to dusty velvet all
through the summer afternoon. But what do they do then? and
there came to my mind's eye one of those long streets somewhere south of the river whose infinite rows are innumerably
populated. With the eye of the imagination I saw a very ancient
74
lady crossing the street on the arm of a middle-aged woman,
her daughter, perhaps, both so respectably booted and furred
that their dressing in the afternoon must be a ritual, and the
clothes themselves put away in cupboards with camphor, year
after year, throughout the summer months. They cross the
road when the lamps are being lit (for the dusk is their favourite hour), as they must have done year after year. The elder is
close on eighty; but if one asked her what her life has meant to
her, she would say that she remembered the streets lit for the
battle of Balaclava, or had heard the guns fire in Hyde Park for
the birth of King Edward the Seventh. And if one asked her,
longing to pin down the moment with date and season, but
what were you doing on the fifth of April 1868, or the second of
November 1875, she would look vague and say that she could
remember nothing. For all the dinners are cooked; the plates
and cups washed; the children sent to school and gone out into
the world. Nothing remains of it all. All has vanished. No biography or history has a word to say about it. And the novels,
without meaning to, inevitably lie.
All these infinitely obscure lives remain to be recorded, I
said, addressing Mary Carmichael as if she were present; and
went on in thought through the streets of London feeling in
imagination the pressure of dumbness, the accumulation of unrecorded life, whether from the women at the street corners
with their arms akimbo, and the rings embedded in their fat
swollen fingers, talking with a gesticulation like the swing of
Shakespeare's words; or from the violet-sellers and matchsellers and old crones stationed under doorways; or from drifting girls whose faces, like waves in sun and cloud, signal the
coming of men and women and the flickering lights of shop
windows. All that you will have to explore, I said to Mary
Carmichael, holding your torch firm in your hand. Above all,
you must illumine your own soul with its profundities and its
shallows, and its vanities and its generosities, and say what
your beauty means to you or your plainness, and what is your
relation to the everchanging and turning world of gloves and
shoes and stuffs swaying up and down among the faint scents
that come through chemists' bottles down arcades of dress material over a floor of pseudo-marble. For in imagination I had
gone into a shop; it was laid with black and white paving; it
75
was hung, astonishingly beautifully, with coloured ribbons.
Mary Carmichael might well have a look at that in passing, I
thought, for it is a sight that would lend itself to the pen as fittingly as any snowy peak or rocky gorge in the Andes. And
there is the girl behind the counter too—I would as soon have
her true history as the hundred and fiftieth life of Napoleon or
seventieth study of Keats and his use of Miltonic inversion
which old Professor Z and his like are now inditing. And then I
went on very warily, on the very tips of my toes (so cowardly
am I, so afraid of the lash that was once almost laid on my own
shoulders), to murmur that she should also learn to laugh,
without bitterness, at the vanities—say rather at the peculiarities, for it is a less offensive word—of the other sex. For there is
a spot the size of a shilling at the back of the head which one
can never see for oneself. It is one of the good offices that sex
can discharge for sex—to describe that spot the size of a shilling at the back of the head. Think how much women have
profited by the comments of Juvenal; by the criticism of Strindberg. Think with what humanity and brilliancy men, from the
earliest ages, have pointed out to women that dark place at the
back of the head! And if Mary were very brave and very honest, she would go behind the other sex and tell us what she
found there. A true picture of man as a whole can never be
painted until a woman has described that spot the size of a
shilling. Mr Woodhouse and Mr Casuabon are spots of that size
and nature. Not of course that anyone in their senses would
counsel her to hold up to scorn and ridicule of set purpose—literature shows the futility of what is written in that spirit. Be
truthful, one would say, and the result is bound to be amazingly interesting. Comedy is bound to be enriched. New facts
are bound to be discovered.
However, it was high time to lower my eyes to the page
again. It would be better, instead of speculating what Mary
Carmichael might write and should write, to see what in fact
Mary Carmichael did write. So I began to read again. I remembered that I had certain grievances against her. She had
broken up Jane Austen's sentence, and thus given me no
chance of pluming myself upon my impeccable taste, my fastidious ear. For it was useless to say, 'Yes, yes, this is very nice;
but Jane Austen wrote much better than you do', when I had to
76
admit that there was no point of likeness between them. Then
she had gone further and broken the sequence—the expected
order. Perhaps she had done this unconsciously, merely giving
things their natural order, as a woman would, if she wrote like
a woman. But the effect was somehow baffling; one could not
see a wave heaping itself, a crisis coming round the next
corner. Therefore I could not plume myself either upon the
depths of my feelings and my profound knowledge of the human heart. For whenever I was about to feel the usual things in
the usual places, about love, about death, the annoying
creature twitched me away, as if the important point were just
a little further on. And thus she made it impossible for me to
roll out my sonorous phrases about 'elemental feelings', the
'common stuff of humanity', 'the depths of the human heart',
and ail those other phrases which support us in our belief that,
however clever we may be on top, we are very serious, very
profound and very humane underneath. She made me feel, on
the contrary, that instead of being serious and profound and
humane, one might be—and the thought was far less seductive—merely lazy minded and conventional into the bargain.
But I read on, and noted certain other facts. She was no
'genius' that was evident. She had nothing like the love of
Nature, the fiery imagination, the wild poetry, the brilliant wit,
the brooding wisdom of her great predecessors, Lady
Winchilsea, Charlotte Brontë, Emily Brontë, Jane Austen and
George Eliot; she could not write with the melody and the dignity of Dorothy Osborne—indeed she was no more than a clever girl whose books will no doubt be pulped by the publishers
in ten years' time. But, nevertheless, she had certain advantages which women of far greater gift lacked even half a century ago. Men were no longer to her 'the opposing faction'; she
need not waste her time railing against them; she need not
climb on to the roof and ruin her peace of mind longing for
travel, experience and a knowledge of the world and character
that were denied her. Fear and hatred were almost gone, or
traces of them showed only in a slight exaggeration of the joy
of freedom, a tendency to the caustic and satirical, rather than
to the romantic, in her treatment of the other sex. Then there
could be no doubt that as a novelist she enjoyed some natural
advantages of a high order. She had a sensibility that was very
77
wide, eager and free. It responded to an almost imperceptible
touch on it. It feasted like a plant newly stood in the air on
every sight and sound that came its way. It ranged, too, very
subtly and curiously, among almost unknown or unrecorded
things; it lighted on small things and showed that perhaps they
were not small after all. It brought buried things to light and
made one wonder what need there had been to bury them.
Awkward though she was and without the unconscious bearing
of long descent which makes the least turn of the pen of a
Thackeray or a Lamb delightful to the ear, she had—I began to
think—mastered the first great lesson; she wrote as a woman,
but as a woman who has forgotten that she is a woman, so that
her pages were full of that curious sexual quality which comes
only when sex is unconscious of itself.
All this was to the good. But no abundance of sensation or
fineness of perception would avail unless she could build up
out of the fleeting and the personal the lasting edifice which
remains unthrown. I had said that I would wait until she faced
herself with 'a situation'. And I meant by that until she proved
by summoning, beckoning and getting together that she was
not a skimmer of surfaces merely, but had looked beneath into
the depths. Now is the time, she would say to herself at a certain moment, when without doing anything violent I can show
the meaning of all this. And she would begin—how unmistakable that quickening is!—beckoning and summoning, and there
would rise up in memory, half forgotten, perhaps quite trivial
things in other chapters dropped by the way. And she would
make their presence felt while someone sewed or smoked a
pipe as naturally as possible, and one would feel, as she went
on writing, as if one had gone to the top of the world and seen
it laid out, very majestically, beneath.
At any rate, she was making the attempt. And as I watched
her lengthening out for the test, I saw, but hoped that she did
not see, the bishops and the deans, the doctors and the professors, the patriarchs and the pedagogues all at her shouting
warning and advice. You can't do this and you shan't do that!
Fellows and scholars only allowed on the grass! Ladies not admitted without a letter of introduction! Aspiring and graceful
female novelists this way! So they kept at her like the crowd at
a fence on the racecourse, and it was her trial to take her fence
78
without looking to right or to left. If you stop to curse you are
lost, I said to her; equally, if you stop to laugh. Hesitate or
fumble and you are done for. Think only of the jump, I implored
her, as if I had put the whole of my money on her back; and she
went over it like a bird. But there was a fence beyond that and
a fence beyond that. Whether she had the staying power I was
doubtful, for the clapping and the crying were fraying to the
nerves. But she did her best. Considering that Mary Carmichael was no genius, but an unknown girl writing her first novel in a bed-sitting-room, without enough of those desirable
things, time, money and idleness, she did not do so badly, I
thought.
Give her another hundred years, I concluded, reading the
last chapter—people's noses and bare shoulders showed naked
against a starry sky, for someone had twitched the curtain in
the drawing-room—give her a room of her own and five hundred a year, let her speak her mind and leave out half that she
now puts in, and she will write a better book one of these days.
She will be a poet, I said, putting LIFE'S ADVENTURE, by
Mary Carmichael, at the end of the shelf, in another hundred
years' time.
79
Six
Next day the light of the October morning was falling in dusty
shafts through the uncurtained windows, and the hum of traffic
rose from the street. London then was winding itself up again;
the factory was astir; the machines were beginning. It was
tempting, after all this reading, to look out of the window and
see what London was doing on the morning of the 26th of
October 1928. And what was London doing? Nobody, it
seemed, was reading ANTONY AND CLEOPATRA. London was
wholly indifferent, it appeared, to Shakespeare's plays. Nobody
cared a straw—and I do not blame them—for the future of fiction, the death of poetry or the development by the average
woman of a prose style completely expressive of her mind. If
opinions upon any of these matters had been chalked on the
pavement, nobody would have stooped to read them. The nonchalance of the hurrying feet would have rubbed them out in
half an hour. Here came an errand-boy; here a woman with a
dog on a lead. The fascination of the London street is that no
two people are ever alike; each seems bound on some private
affair of his own. There were the business-like, with their little
bags; there were the drifters rattling sticks upon area railings;
there were affable characters to whom the streets serve for
clubroom, hailing men in carts and giving information without
being asked for it. Also there were funerals to which men, thus
suddenly reminded of the passing of their own bodies, lifted
their hats. And then a very distinguished gentleman came
slowly down a doorstep and paused to avoid collision with a
bustling lady who had, by some means or other, acquired a
splendid fur coat and a bunch of Parma violets. They all
seemed separate, self-absorbed, on business of their own.
At this moment, as so often happens in London, there was a
complete lull and suspension of traffic. Nothing came down the
street; nobody passed. A single leaf detached itself from the
plane tree at the end of the street, and in that pause and suspension fell. Somehow it was like a signal falling, a signal
pointing to a force in things which one had overlooked. It
seemed to point to a river, which flowed past, invisibly, round
the corner, down the street, and took people and eddied them
along, as the stream at Oxbridge had taken the undergraduate
80
in his boat and the dead leaves. Now it was bringing from one
side of the street to the other diagonally a girl in patent leather
boots, and then a young man in a maroon overcoat; it was also
bringing a taxi-cab; and it brought all three together at a point
directly beneath my window; where the taxi stopped; and the
girl and the young man stopped; and they got into the taxi; and
then the cab glided off as if it were swept on by the current
elsewhere.
The sight was ordinary enough; what was strange was the
rhythmical order with which my imagination had invested it;
and the fact that the ordinary sight of two people getting into a
cab had the power to communicate something of their own
seeming satisfaction. The sight of two people coming down the
street and meeting at the corner seems to ease the mind of
some strain, I thought, watching the taxi turn and make off.
Perhaps to think, as I had been thinking these two days, of one
sex as distinct from the other is an effort. It interferes with the
unity of the mind. Now that effort had ceased and that unity
had been restored by seeing two people come together and get
into a taxicab. The mind is certainly a very mysterious organ, I
reflected, drawing my head in from the window, about which
nothing whatever is known, though we depend upon it so completely. Why do I feel that there are severances and oppositions in the mind, as there are strains from obvious causes on
the body? What does one mean by 'the unity of the mind'? I
pondered, for clearly the mind has so great a power of concentrating at any point at any moment that it seems to have no
single state of being. It can separate itself from the people in
the street, for example, and think of itself as apart from them,
at an upper window looking down on them. Or it can think with
other people spontaneously, as, for instance, in a crowd waiting to hear some piece of news read out. it can think back
through its fathers or through its mothers, as I have said that a
woman writing thinks back through her mothers. Again if one
is a woman one is often surprised by a sudden splitting off of
consciousness, say in walking down Whitehall, when from being the natural inheritor of that civilization, she becomes, on
the contrary, outside of it, alien and critical. Clearly the mind is
always altering its focus, and bringing the world into different
perspectives. But some of these states of mind seem, even if
81
adopted spontaneously, to be less comfortable than others. In
order to keep oneself continuing in them one is unconsciously
holding something back, and gradually the repression becomes
an effort. But there may be some state of mind in which one
could continue without effort because nothing is required to be
held back. And this perhaps, I thought, coming in from the window, is one of them. For certainly when I saw the couple get into the taxicab the mind felt as if, after being divided, it had
come together again in a natural fusion. The obvious reason
would be that it is natural for the sexes to co-operate. One has
a profound, if irrational, instinct in favour of the theory that the
union of man and woman makes for the greatest satisfaction,
the most complete happiness. But the sight of the two people
getting into the taxi and the satisfaction it gave me made me
also ask whether there are two sexes in the mind corresponding to the two sexes in the body, and whether they also require
to be united in order to get complete satisfaction and happiness? And I went on amateurishly to sketch a plan of the soul
so that in each of us two powers preside, one male, one female;
and in the man's brain the man predominates over the woman,
and in the woman's brain the woman predominates over the
man. The normal and comfortable state of being is that when
the two live in harmony together, spiritually co-operating. If
one is a man, still the woman part of his brain must have effect; and a woman also must have intercourse with the man in
her. Coleridge perhaps meant this when he said that a great
mind is androgynous. It is when this fusion takes place that the
mind is fully fertilized and uses all its faculties. Perhaps a mind
that is purely masculine cannot create, any more than a mind
that is purely feminine, I thought. But it would he well to test
what one meant by man-womanly, and conversely by womanmanly, by pausing and looking at a book or two.
Coleridge certainly did not mean, when he said that a great
mind is androgynous, that it is a mind that has any special sympathy with women; a mind that takes up their cause or devotes
itself to their interpretation. Perhaps the androgynous mind is
less apt to make these distinctions than the single-sexed mind.
He meant, perhaps, that the androgynous mind is resonant and
porous; that it transmits emotion without impediment; that it is
naturally creative, incandescent and undivided. In fact one
82
goes back to Shakespeare's mind as the type of the androgynous, of the man-womanly mind, though it would be impossible
to say what Shakespeare thought of women. And if it be true
that it is one of the tokens of the fully developed mind that it
does not think specially or separately of sex, how much harder
it is to attain that condition now than ever before. Here I came
to the books by living writers, and there paused and wondered
if this fact were not at the root of something that had long
puzzled me. No age can ever have been as stridently sex-conscious as our own; those innumerable books by men about women in the British Museum are a proof of it. The Suffrage campaign was no doubt to blame. It must have roused in men an
extraordinary desire for self-assertion; it must have made them
lay an emphasis upon their own sex and its characteristics
which they would not have troubled to think about had they not
been challenged. And when one is challenged, even by a few
women in black bonnets, one retaliates, if one has never been
challenged before, rather excessively. That perhaps accounts
for some of the characteristics that I remember to have found
here, I thought, taking down a new novel by Mr A, who is in
the prime of life and very well thought of, apparently, by the
reviewers. I opened it. Indeed, it was delightful to read a man's
writing again. It was so direct, so straightforward after the
writing of women. It indicated such freedom of mind, such
liberty of person, such confidence in himself. One had a sense
of physical well-being in the presence of this well-nourished,
well-educated, free mind, which had never been thwarted or
opposed, but had had full liberty from birth to stretch itself in
whatever way it liked. All this was admirable. But after reading
a chapter or two a shadow seemed to lie across the page. it
was a straight dark bar, a shadow shaped something like the
letter 'I'. One began dodging this way and that to catch a
glimpse of the landscape behind it. Whether that was indeed a
tree or a woman walking I was not quite sure. Back one was always hailed to the letter 'I'. One began to be tired of 'I'. Not
but what this 'I' was a most respectable 'I'; honest and logical;
as hard as a nut, and polished for centuries by good teaching
and good feeding. I respect and admire that 'I' from the bottom
of my heart. But—here I turned a page or two, looking for
something or other—the worst of it is that in the shadow of the
83
letter 'I' all is shapeless as mist. Is that a tree? No, it is a woman. But… she has not a bone in her body, I thought, watching
Phoebe, for that was her name, coming across the beach. Then
Alan got up and the shadow of Alan at once obliterated Phoebe.
For Alan had views and Phoebe was quenched in the flood of
his views. And then Alan, I thought, has passions; and here I
turned page after page very fast, feeling that the crisis was approaching, and so it was. It took place on the beach under the
sun. It was done very openly. It was done very vigorously.
Nothing could have been more indecent. But… I had said 'but'
too often. One cannot go on saying 'but'. One must finish the
sentence somehow, I rebuked myself. Shall I finish it, 'But—I
am bored!' But why was I bored? Partly because of the dominance of the letter 'I' and the aridity, which, like the giant beech
tree, it casts within its shade. Nothing will grow there. And
partly for some more obscure reason. There seemed to be
some obstacle, some impediment in Mr A's mind which blocked
the fountain of creative energy and shored it within narrow
limits. And remembering the lunch party at Oxbridge, and the
cigarette ash and the Manx cat and Tennyson and Christina
Rossetti all in a bunch, it seemed possible that the impediment
lay there. As he no longer hums under his breath, 'There has
fallen a splendid tear from the passion-flower at the gate',
when Phoebe crosses the beach, and she no longer replies, 'My
heart is like a singing bird whose nest is in a water'd shoot',
when Alan approaches what can he do? Being honest as the
day and logical as the sun, there is only one thing he can do.
And that he does, to do him justice, over and over (I said turning the pages) and over again. And that, I added, aware of the
awful nature of the confession, seems somehow dull.
Shakespeare's indecency uproots a thousand other things in
one's mind, and is far from being dull. But Shakespeare does it
for pleasure; Mr A, as the nurses say, does it on purpose. He
does it in protest. He is protesting against the equality of the
other sex by asserting his own superiority. He is therefore impeded and inhibited and self-conscious as Shakespeare might
have been if he too had known Miss Clough and Miss Davies.
Doubtless Elizabethan literature would have been very different from what it is if the women's movement had begun in the
sixteenth century and not in the nineteenth.
84
What, then, it amounts to, if this theory of the two sides of
the mind holds good, is that virility has now become self-conscious—men, that is to say, are now writing only with the male
side of their brains. It is a mistake for a woman to read them,
for she will inevitably look for something that she will not find.
It is the power of suggestion that one most misses, I thought,
taking Mr B the critic in my hand and reading, very carefully
and very dutifully, his remarks upon the art of poetry. Very
able they were, acute and full of learning; but the trouble was
that his feelings no longer communicated; his mind seemed
separated into different chambers; not a sound carried from
one to the other. Thus, when one takes a sentence of Mr B into
the mind it falls plump to the ground—dead; but when one
takes a sentence of Coleridge into the mind, it explodes and
gives birth to all kinds of other ideas, and that is the only sort
of writing of which one can say that it has the secret of perpetual life.
But whatever the reason may be, it is a fact that one must
deplore. For it means—here I had come to rows of books by Mr
Galsworthy and Mr Kipling—that some of the finest works of
our greatest living writers fall upon deaf ears. Do what she will
a woman cannot find in them that fountain of perpetual life
which the critics assure her is there. It is not only that they celebrate male virtues, enforce male values and describe the
world of men; it is that the emotion with which these books are
permeated is to a woman incomprehensible. It is coming, it is
gathering, it is about to burst on one's head, one begins saying
long before the end. That picture will fall on old Jolyon's head;
he will die of the shock; the old clerk will speak over him two
or three obituary words; and all the swans on the Thames will
simultaneously burst out singing. But one will rush away before that happens and hide in the gooseberry bushes, for the
emotion which is so deep, so subtle, so symbolical to a man
moves a woman to wonder. So with Mr Kipling's officers who
turn their Backs; and his Sowers who sow the Seed; and his
Men who are alone with their Work; and the Flag—one blushes
at all these capital letters as if one had been caught eavesdropping at some purely masculine orgy. The fact is that neither Mr
Galsworthy nor Mr Kipling has a spark of the woman in him.
Thus all their qualities seem to a woman, if one may
85
generalize, crude and immature. They lack suggestive power.
And when a book lacks suggestive power, however hard it hits
the surface of the mind it cannot penetrate within.
And in that restless mood in which one takes books out and
puts them back again without looking at them I began to envisage an age to come of pure, of self-assertive virility, such as
the letters of professors (take Sir Walter Raleigh's letters, for
instance) seem to forebode, and the rulers of Italy have already
brought into being. For one can hardly fail to be impressed in
Rome by the sense of unmitigated masculinity; and whatever
the value of unmitigated masculinity upon the state, one may
question the effect of it upon the art of poetry. At any rate, according to the newspapers, there is a certain anxiety about fiction in Italy. There has been a meeting of academicians whose
object it is 'to develop the Italian novel'. 'Men famous by birth,
or in finance, industry or the Fascist corporations' came together the other day and discussed the matter, and a telegram
was sent to the Duce expressing the hope 'that the Fascist era
would soon give birth to a poet worthy of it'. We may all join in
that pious hope, but it is doubtful whether poetry can come of
an incubator. Poetry ought to have a mother as well as a father. The Fascist poem, one may fear, will be a horrid little abortion such as one sees in a glass jar in the museum of some
county town. Such monsters never live long, it is said; one has
never seen a prodigy of that sort cropping grass in a field. Two
heads on one body do not make for length of life.
However, the blame for all this, if one is anxious to lay
blame, rests no more upon one sex than upon the other. All seducers and reformers are responsible: Lady Bessborough when
she lied to Lord Granville; Miss Davies when she told the truth
to Mr Greg. All who have brought about a state of sex-consciousness are to blame, and it is they who drive me, when I
want to stretch my faculties on a book, to seek it in that happy
age, before Miss Davies and Miss Clough were born, when the
writer used both sides of his mind equally. One must turn back
to Shakespeare then, for Shakespeare was androgynous; and
so were Keats and Sterne and Cowper and Lamb and Coleridge. Shelley perhaps was sexless. Milton and Ben Jonson
had a dash too much of the male in them. So had Wordsworth
and Tolstoi. In our time Proust was wholly androgynous, if not
86
perhaps a little too much of a woman. But that failing is too
rare for one to complain of it, since without some mixture of
the kind the intellect seems to predominate and the other faculties of the mind harden and become barren. However, I consoled myself with the reflection that this is perhaps a passing
phase; much of what I have said in obedience to my promise to
give you the course of my thoughts will seem out of date; much
of what flames in my eyes will seem dubious to you who have
not yet come of age.
Even so, the very first sentence that I would write here, I
said, crossing over to the writing-table and taking up the page
headed Women and Fiction, is that it is fatal for anyone who
writes to think of their sex. It is fatal to be a man or woman
pure and simple; one must be woman-manly or man-womanly.
It is fatal for a woman to lay the least stress on any grievance;
to plead even with justice any cause; in any way to speak consciously as a woman. And fatal is no figure of speech; for anything written with that conscious bias is doomed to death. It
ceases to be fertilized. Brilliant and effective, powerful and
masterly, as it may appear for a day or two, it must wither at
nightfall; it cannot grow in the minds of others. Some collaboration has to take place in the mind between the woman and the
man before the art of creation can be accomplished. Some marriage of opposites has to be consummated. The whole of the
mind must lie wide open if we are to get the sense that the
writer is communicating his experience with perfect fullness.
There must be freedom and there must be peace. Not a wheel
must grate, not a light glimmer. The curtains must be close
drawn. The writer, I thought, once his experience is over, must
lie back and let his mind celebrate its nuptials in darkness. He
must not look or question what is being done. Rather, he must
pluck the petals from a rose or watch the swans float calmly
down the river. And I saw again the current which took the
boat and the under-graduate and the dead leaves; and the taxi
took the man and the woman, I thought, seeing them come together across the street, and the current swept them away, I
thought, hearing far off the roar of London's traffic, into that
tremendous stream.
Here, then, Mary Beton ceases to speak. She has told you
how she reached the conclusion—the prosaic conclusion—that
87
it is necessary to have five hundred a year and a room with a
lock on the door if you are to write fiction or poetry. She has
tried to lay bare the thoughts and impressions that led her to
think this. She has asked you to follow her flying into the arms
of a Beadle, lunching here, dining there, drawing pictures in
the British Museum, taking books from the shelf, looking out of
the window. While she has been doing all these things, you no
doubt have been observing her failings and foibles and deciding what effect they have had on her opinions. You have been
contradicting her and making whatever additions and deductions seem good to you. That is all as it should be, for in a question like this truth is only to be had by laying together many
varieties of error. And I will end now in my own person by anticipating two criticisms, so obvious that you can hardly fail to
make them.
No opinion has been expressed, you may say, upon the comparative merits of the sexes even as writers. That was done
purposely, because, even if the time had come for such a valuation—and it is far more important at the moment to know how
much money women had and how many rooms than to theorize
about their capacities—even if the time had come I do not believe that gifts, whether of mind or character, can be weighed
like sugar and butter, not even in Cambridge, where they are
so adept at putting people into classes and fixing caps on their
heads and letters after their names. I do not believe that even
the Table of Precedency which you will find in Whitaker's
ALMANAC represents a final order of values, or that there is
any sound reason to suppose that a Commander of the Bath
will ultimately walk in to dinner behind a Master in Lunacy. All
this pitting of sex against sex, of quality against quality; all this
claiming of superiority and imputing of inferiority, belong to
the private-school stage of human existence where there are
'sides', and it is necessary for one side to beat another side,
and of the utmost importance to walk up to a platform and receive from the hands of the Headmaster himself a highly ornamental pot. As people mature they cease to believe in sides or
in Headmasters or in highly ornamental pots. At any rate,
where books are concerned, it is notoriously difficult to fix labels of merit in such a way that they do not come off. Are not
reviews of current literature a perpetual illustration of the
88
difficulty of judgement? 'This great book', 'this worthless book',
the same book is called by both names. Praise and blame alike
mean nothing. No, delightful as the pastime of measuring may
be, it is the most futile of all occupations, and to submit to the
decrees of the measurers the most servile of attitudes. So long
as you write what you wish to write, that is all that matters;
and whether it matters for ages or only for hours, nobody can
say. But to sacrifice a hair of the head of your vision, a shade of
its colour, in deference to some Headmaster with a silver pot in
his hand or to some professor with a measuring-rod up his
sleeve, is the most abject treachery, and the sacrifice of wealth
and chastity which used to be said to be the greatest of human
disasters, a mere flea-bite in comparison.
Next I think that you may object that in all this I have made
too much of the importance of material things. Even allowing a
generous margin for symbolism, that five hundred a year
stands for the power to contemplate, that a lock on the door
means the power to think for oneself, still you may say that the
mind should rise above such things; and that great poets have
often been poor men. Let me then quote to you the words of
your own Professor of Literature, who knows better than I do
what goes to the making of a poet. Sir Arthur Quiller-Couch
writes:'10
'What are the great poetical names of the last hundred years
or so? Coleridge, Wordsworth, Byron, Shelley, Landor, Keats,
Tennyson, Browning, Arnold, Morris, Rossetti, Swinburne—we
may stop there. Of these, all but Keats, Browning, Rossetti
were University men, and of these three, Keats, who died
young, cut off in his prime, was the only one not fairly well to
do. It may seem a brutal thing to say, and it is a sad thing to
say: but, as a matter of hard fact, the theory that poetical genius bloweth where it listeth, and equally in poor and rich, holds
little truth. As a matter of hard fact, nine out of those twelve
were University men: which means that somehow or other they
procured the means to get the best education England can
give. As a matter of hard fact, of the remaining three you know
that Browning was well to do, and I challenge you that, if he
had not been well to do, he would no more have attained to
write SAUL or THE RING AND THE BOOK than Ruskin would
10.THE ART OF WRITING, by Sir Arthur Quiller-Couch.
89
have attained to writing MODERN PAINTERS if his father had
not dealt prosperously in business. Rossetti had a small private
income; and, moreover, he painted. There remains but Keats;
whom Atropos slew young, as she slew John Clare in a madhouse, and James Thomson by the laudanum he took to drug
disappointment. These are dreadful facts, but let us face them.
It is—however dishonouring to us as a nation—certain that, by
some fault in our commonwealth, the poor poet has not in
these days, nor has had for two hundred years, a dog's chance.
Believe me—and I have spent a great part of ten years in
watching some three hundred and twenty elementary schools,
we may prate of democracy, but actually, a poor child in England has little more hope than had the son of an Athenian slave
to be emancipated into that intellectual freedom of which great
writings are born.'
Nobody could put the point more plainly. 'The poor poet has
not in these days, nor has had for two hundred years, a dog's
chance… a poor child in England has little more hope than had
the son of an Athenian slave to be emancipated into that intellectual freedom of which great writings are born.' That is it. Intellectual freedom depends upon material things. Poetry depends upon intellectual freedom. And women have always been
poor, not for two hundred years merely, but from the beginning of time. Women have had less intellectual freedom than
the sons of Athenian slaves. Women, then, have not had a dog's
chance of writing poetry. That is why I have laid so much
stress on money and a room of one's own. However, thanks to
the toils of those obscure women in the past, of whom I wish
we knew more, thanks, curiously enough to two wars, the
Crimean which let Florence Nightingale out of her drawingroom, and the European War which opened the doors to the average woman some sixty years later, these evils are in the way
to be bettered. Otherwise you would not be here tonight, and
your chance of earning five hundred pounds a year, precarious
as I am afraid that it still is, would be minute in the extreme.
Still, you may object, why do you attach so much importance
to this writing of books by women when, according to you, it
requires so much effort, leads perhaps to the murder of one's
aunts, will make one almost certainly late for luncheon, and
may bring one into very grave disputes with certain very good
90
fellows? My motives, let me admit, are partly selfish. Like most
uneducated Englishwomen, I like reading—I like reading books
in the bulk. Lately my diet has become a trifle monotonous; history is too much about wars; biography too much about great
men; poetry has shown, I think, a tendency to sterility, and fiction but I have sufficiently exposed my disabilities as a critic of
modern fiction and will say no more about it. Therefore I would
ask you to write all kinds of books, hesitating at no subject
however trivial or however vast. By hook or by crook, I hope
that you will possess yourselves of money enough to travel and
to idle, to contemplate the future or the past of the world, to
dream over books and loiter at street corners and let the line of
thought dip deep into the stream. For I am by no means confining you to fiction. If you would please me—and there are thousands like me—you would write books of travel and adventure,
and research and scholarship, and history and biography, and
criticism and philosophy and science. By so doing you will certainly profit the art of fiction. For books have a way of influencing each other. Fiction will be much the better for standing
cheek by jowl with poetry and philosophy. Moreover, if you
consider any great figure of the past, like Sappho, like the Lady
Murasaki, like Emily Brontë, you will find that she is an inheritor as well as an originator, and has come into existence because women have come to have the habit of writing naturally;
so that even as a prelude to poetry such activity on your part
would be invaluable.
But when I look back through these notes and criticize my
own train of thought as I made them, I find that my motives
were not altogether selfish. There runs through these comments and discursions the conviction—or is it the instinct?—that good books are desirable and that good writers,
even if they show every variety of human depravity, are still
good human beings. Thus when I ask you to write more books I
am urging you to do what will be for your good and for the
good of the world at large. How to justify this instinct or belief
I do not know, for philosophic words, if one has not been educated at a university, are apt to play one false. What is meant
by 'reality'? It would seem to be something very erratic, very
undependable—now to be found in a dusty road, now in a scrap
of newspaper in the street, now a daffodil in the sun. It lights
91
up a group in a room and stamps some casual saying. It overwhelms one walking home beneath the stars and makes the silent world more real than the world of speech—and then there
it is again in an omnibus in the uproar of Piccadilly. Sometimes, too, it seems to dwell in shapes too far away for us to
discern what their nature is. But whatever it touches, it fixes
and makes permanent. That is what remains over when the
skin of the day has been cast into the hedge; that is what is left
of past time and of our loves and hates. Now the writer, as I
think, has the chance to live more than other people in the
presence of this reality. It is his business to find it and collect it
and communicate it to the rest of us. So at least I infer from
reading LEAR or EMMA or LA RECHERCHE DU TEMPS
PERDU. For the reading of these books seems to perform a
curious couching operation on the senses; one sees more intensely afterwards; the world seems bared of its covering and
given an intenser life. Those are the enviable people who live
at enmity with unreality; and those are the pitiable who are
knocked on the head by the thing done without knowing or
caring. So that when I ask you to earn money and have a room
of your own, I am asking you to live in the presence of reality,
an invigorating life, it would appear, whether one can impart it
or not.
Here I would stop, but the pressure of convention decrees
that every speech must end with a peroration. And a peroration
addressed to women should have something, you will agree,
particularly exalting and ennobling about it. I should implore
you to remember your responsibilities, to be higher, more spiritual; I should remind, you how much depends upon you, and
what an influence you can exert upon the future. But those exhortations can safely, I think, be left to the other sex, who will
put them, and indeed have put them, with far greater eloquence than I can compass. When I rummage in my own mind I
find no noble sentiments about being companions and equals
and influencing the world to higher ends. I find myself saying
briefly and prosaically that it is much more important to be
oneself than anything else. Do not dream of influencing other
people, I would say, if I knew how to make it sound exalted.
Think of things in themselves.
92
And again I am reminded by dipping into newspapers and
novels and biographies that when a woman speaks to women
she should have something very unpleasant up her sleeve. Women are hard on women. Women dislike women. Women—but
are you not sick to death of the word? I can assure you that I
am. Let us agree, then, that a paper read by a woman to women should end with something particularly disagreeable.
But how does it go? What can I think of? The truth is, I often
like women. I like their unconventionality. I like their completeness. I like their anonymity. I like—but I must not run on in this
way. That cupboard there,—you say it holds clean table-napkins only; but what if Sir Archibald Bodkin were concealed
among them? Let me then adopt a sterner tone. Have I, in the
preceding words, conveyed to you sufficiently the warnings
and reprobation of mankind? I have told you the very low opinion in which you were held by Mr Oscar Browning. I have indicated what Napoleon once thought of you and what Mussolini thinks now. Then, in case any of you aspire to fiction, I
have copied out for your benefit the advice of the critic about
courageously acknowledging the limitations of your sex. I have
referred to Professor X and given prominence to his statement
that women are intellectually, morally and physically inferior to
men. I have handed on all that has come my way without going
in search of it, and here is a final warning—from Mr John Langdon Davies11
. Mr John Langdon Davies warns women 'that
when children cease to be altogether desirable, women cease
to be altogether necessary'. I hope you will make a note of it.
How can I further encourage you to go about the business of
life? Young women, I would say, and please attend, for the peroration is beginning, you are, in my opinion, disgracefully ignorant. You have never made a discovery of any sort of importance. You have never shaken an empire or led an army into
battle. The plays of Shakespeare are not by you, and you have
never introduced a barbarous race to the blessings of civilization. What is your excuse? It is all very well for you to say,
pointing to the streets and squares and forests of the globe
swarming with black and white and coffee-coloured inhabitants, all busily engaged in traffic and enterprise and love-making, we have had other work on our hands. Without our doing,
11.A SHORT HISTORY OF WOMEN, by John Langdon Davies.
93
those seas would be unsailed and those fertile lands a desert.
We have borne and bred and washed and taught, perhaps to
the age of six or seven years, the one thousand six hundred
and twenty-three million human beings who are, according to
statistics, at present in existence, and that, allowing that some
had help, takes time.
There is truth in what you say—I will not deny it. But at the
same time may I remind you that there have been at least two
colleges for women in existence in England since the year
1866; that after the year 1880 a married woman was allowed
by law to possess her own property; and that in 1919—which is
a whole nine years ago she was given a vote? May I also remind you that most of the professions have been open to you
for close on ten years now? When you reflect upon these immense privileges and the length of time during which they
have been enjoyed, and the fact that there must be at this moment some two thousand women capable of earning over five
hundred a year in one way or another, you will agree that the
excuse of lack of opportunity, training, encouragement, leisure
and money no longer holds good. Moreover, the economists are
telling us that Mrs Seton has had too many children. You must,
of course, go on bearing children, but, so they say, in twos and
threes, not in tens and twelves.
Thus, with some time on your hands and with some book
learning in your brains—you have had enough of the other
kind, and are sent to college partly, I suspect, to be uneducated—surely you should embark upon another stage of
your very long, very laborious and highly obscure career. A
thousand pens are ready to suggest what you should do and
what effect you will have. My own suggestion is a little fantastic, I admit; I prefer, therefore, to put it in the form of fiction.
I told you in the course of this paper that Shakespeare had a
sister; but do not look for her in Sir Sidney Lee's life of the
poet. She died young—alas, she never wrote a word. She lies
buried where the omnibuses now stop, opposite the Elephant
and Castle. Now my belief is that this poet who never wrote a
word and was buried at the cross-roads still lives. She lives in
you and in me, and in many other women who are not here tonight, 
for they are washing up the dishes and putting the children to bed. But she lives; for great poets do not die; they are
94
continuing presences; they need only the opportunity to walk
among us in the flesh. This opportunity, as I think, it is now
coming within your power to give her. For my belief is that if
we live another century or so—I am talking of the common life
which is the real life and not of the little separate lives which
we live as individuals—and have five hundred a year each of us
and rooms of our own; if we have the habit of freedom and the
courage to write exactly what we think; if we escape a little
from the common sitting-room and see human beings not always in their relation to each other but in relation to reality;
and the sky, too, and the trees or whatever it may be in themselves; if we look past Milton's bogey, for no human being
should shut out the view; if we face the fact, for it is a fact, that
there is no arm to cling to, but that we go alone and that our
relation is to the world of reality and not only to the world of
men and women, then the opportunity will come and the dead
poet who was Shakespeare's sister will put on the body which
she has so often laid down. Drawing her life from the lives of
the unknown who were her forerunners, as her brother did before her, she will be born. As for her coming without that preparation, without that effort on our part, without that determination that when she is born again she shall find it possible to
live and write her poetry, that we cannot expect, for that would
he impossible. But I maintain that she would come if we
worked for her, and that so to work, even in poverty and obscurity, is worth while.
95
www.feedbooks.com
Food for the mind
96